'''Romani''' or '''Romany''',  '''Gypsy'''  or  '''Gipsy'''<ref>http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/508791/Romani-language</ref> (native name: ''romani ćhib'') is the  of the  and .
The  Romani language should not be confused with either  (spoken by ), or  (spoken in parts of southeastern ), both of which are .
Analysis of the Romani language has shown that it is closely related to those spoken in central and northern India. This linguistic relationship is believed to indicate the Roma's and 's geographical origin. Loanwords in Romani make it possible to trace the pattern of their migration westwards.  They came originally from the  or what is now northern  and parts of . The Romani language is usually included in the  (together with Western , , , Khandeshi,<!--Does this language need a Wikipedia article?-->  etc.).  It is still debated whether the origin of the name ''Sinti'' is the same as that of the  for the  region of southeastern Pakistan and far western India ( and ), around the lower  or is a European loanword in Romani, recognizable as such in its morphological integration into the language (plural Sinte, feminine singular Sintica). It was primarily through  studies of the Romani language with various north Indian dialects and languages that the origins of the Roma people were traced back to India.
, , and  share some words and similar grammatical systems.  A 2003 study published in  suggests Romani is also related to ,<ref>{{cite journal |last=Gray |first=R.D. |authorlink= |coauthors=Atkinson, Q.D. |year=2003 |title=Language-tree divergence times support the Anatolian theory of Indo-European origin |journal= |volume=426 |issue=6965 |pages=435–9  |doi=10.1038/nature02029 |accessdate=2008-07-15 }}</ref> presently spoken in . 
In terms of its grammatical structures, Romani is conservative in maintaining almost intact the Middle Indo-Aryan present-tense person concord markers, and in maintaining consonantal endings for nominal case – both features that have been eroded in most other modern languages of Central India. It shares an innovative pattern of past-tense person concord with the languages of the Northwest, such as Kashmiri and Shina. This is believed to be further proof that Romani originated in the Central region, then migrated to the Northwest. Characteristic for Romani is the fusion of postpositions of the second Layer (or case marking clitics) to the nominal stem, and the emergence of external tense morphology that attaches to the person suffix. All of these features are shared between Romani and , which has prompted much discussion about the relationships between these two languages.
The Romani language is sometimes considered a group of dialects or a collection of related languages that comprise all the members of a single genetic subgroup.
While the language is nowhere official, there are attempts currently aimed at the creation of a standard language out of all variants (such as those from , the , ). Also, different variants of the language are now in the process of being codified in those countries with high Roma populations (for example, ).
There are no sure historical documents about the early phases of the Romani language. The language is not directly cited in the epic '''' by the 11th century  poet , who wrote about the 10,000 or 12,000  musicians who were given in the 5th century AD by King  of  (in ) to  the . Nevertheless, many have suggested that these people are the ancestors of the Roma.
However, research carried out already in the nineteenth century by Pott (1845) and Miklosich (1882-1888)  showed this to be unlikely. The Romani language proves to be a New Indo-Aryan language (NIA), not a  (MIA), as it would have to be to fit Firdausi's scheme. The principal argument favouring a migration during or after the transition period to NIA is the loss of the old system of nominal case, and its reduction to just a two-way case system, nominative vs. oblique. A secondary argument concerns the system of gender differentiation. Romani has only two  (masculine and feminine). Middle Indo-Aryan languages (named MIA) generally had three genders (masculine, feminine and neuter), and some modern Indo-Aryan languages retain this old system even today. It is argued that loss of the neuter gender did not occur until the transition to NIA. Most of the neuter nouns became masculine while a few feminine, like the neuter अग्नि (agni) in the  became the feminine आग (āg) in  and ''jag'' in Romani. The parallels in grammatical gender evolution between Romani and other NIA languages have been cited as evidence that the forerunner of Romani remained in the Indian Subcontinent until a later period, perhaps even as late as the tenth century CE. 
There are no historical proofs to clarify who were the ancestors of the Roma, and what motivated them to emigrate from the , but there are various theories. The influence of the  (and to a lesser extent of the , like ,  and of the ), points to a prolonged stay in  after the departure from South Asia.
The  beginning in the first half of the  triggered another westward migration. The Roma arrived in  and afterwards spread to the other continents. The great distances between the scattered Roma groups led to the development of local community distinctions. The differing local influences have greatly affected the modern language, splitting it into a number of different (originally exclusively regional) dialects.
Today Romani is spoken by small groups in 42  European countries [http://www.standards.dfes.gov.uk/ethnicminorities/raising_achievement/gypsy_travellerachievement/]. A project at  in  is transcribing Romani dialects, many of which are on the brink of extinction, for the first time.
[http://www.llc.manchester.ac.uk/Research/Projects/romani/]
Today's dialects of Romani are differentiated by the vocabulary accumulated since their departure from , as well as through  and grammatical features. Many Roma no longer speak the language or speak various new s from the local language with the addition of Romani vocabulary.
A long-standing common categorisation was a division between  the ''Vlax'' (from '''') from ''non-Vlax'' dialects.  ''Vlax'' are those Roma who lived many centuries in the territory of Romania. The main distinction between the two groups is the degree to which their vocabulary is borrowed from .  Vlax-speaking groups include the great number of speakers (between half and two-thirds of all Romani speakers).  first made this distinction, and coined the term ''Vlax'' in 1915 in the book ''The Report on the Gypsy tribes of North East Bulgaria''. Subsequently, other groups of dialects were recognized, primarily based on geographical and vocabulary criteria, including:
In the past several decades, some scholars have worked out a categorisation of Romani dialects from a linguistic point of view on the basis of historical evolution and es. Much of this work was carried out by Bochum-based linguist Norbert Boretzky, who pioneered the systematic plotting of structural features of Romani dialects onto geographical maps. This culminated in an Atlas of Romani Dialects, co-authored with Birgit Igla, which appeared in 2005 and plots numerous isoglosses onto maps. At the University of Manchester, similar work has been carried out by linguist and former Romani-rights activist Yaron Matras, and his associates. Together with Viktor Elšík (now of Charles University, Prague), Matras compiled the Romani Morpho-Syntax database, which is the largest compilation of data on the dialects of Romani. Parts of this database can be accessed online via the webpage of the Manchester Romani Project. Matras (2002, 2005) has argued for a theory of geographical classification of Romani dialects, which is based on the diffusion in space of innovations. According to this theory, Early Romani (as spoken in the Byzantine Empire) was brought to western and other parts of Europe through population migrations of Rom in the 14th-15th centuries. These groups settled in the various European regions during the 16th and 17th centuries, acquiring fluency in a variety of contact languages. Changes emerged then, which spread in wave-like patterns, creating the dialect differences attested today. According to Matras, there were two major centres of innovations: some changes emerged in western Europe (Germany and vicinity), spreading eastwards; other emerged in the Wallachian area, spreading to the west and south. In addition, many regional and local isoglosses formed, creating a complex wave of language boundaries. Matras points to the prohtesis of j- in aro > jaro 'egg' and ov > jov 'he' as typical examples of west-to-east diffusion, and of addition of prothetic a- in bijav > abijav as a typical east-to-west spread. His conclusion is that dialect differences formed in situ, and not as a result of differetn waves of migration.
In a series of articles (beginning from 1982),  proposed a different kind of classification. He concentrates on the dialectal diversity of Romani in three successive strata of expansion, using the criteria of phonological and grammatical changes. Finding the common linguistic features of the dialects, he presents the historical evolution from the first stratum (the dialects closest to the Anatolian Romani of the 13th century) to the second and third strata. He also names as "pogadialects" (after the '''' dialect from ) those which have only a Romani vocabulary grafted into a non-Romani language.
A table of some dialectal differences:
phirdyum, phirjum
guglibe(n)/gugliba
guglibe(n)/gugliba
khoni
kuni
khoi, khoyi
kui, kuyi
khoi, khoyi
kui, kuyi
The first stratum includes the oldest dialects: ''Mechkari'', ''Kabuji'', ''Xanduri'', ''Drindari'', ''Erli'', ''Arli'', ''Bugurji'', ''Mahajeri'', ''Ursari'' (''Rićhinari''), ''Spoitori'' (''''), ''Karpatichi'', ''Polska Roma'', ''Kaale'' (from ), ''Sinto-manush'', and the so-called '' dialects''.
In the second there are ''Chergari'', ''Gurbeti'', ''Jambashi'', ''Fichiri'', ''Filipiji'' and a subgroup of the Vlax dialects of Romania and .
The third comprises the rest of the so-called Vlax dialects, including ''Kalderash'', ''Lovari'', ''Machvano''.
Some Roma have developed s or s, including:
There are independent groups currently working toward standardizing the language, including groups in Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, the United States, Sweden, and other nations.
A standardized form of Romani is used in Serbia, and in Serbia's autonomous province of Vojvodina Romani is one of the officially recognized languages of minorities having its own radio stations and news broadcasts.
In Romania, the country with the largest identifiable Roma population, there is a unified teaching system of the Romani language for all dialects spoken in the country. This is primarily a result of the work of Gheorghe Sarău, who made Romani textbooks for teaching Roma children in the Romani language. He teaches a purified, mildly  language, choosing the original Indo-Aryan words and grammatical elements from various dialects. The pronunciation is mostly like that of the dialects from the first stratum. When there are more variants in the dialects, the variant that most closely resembles the oldest forms is chosen, like ''byav'' instead of ''abyav'', ''abyau'', ''akana'' instead of ''akanak'', ''shunav'' instead of ''ashunav'' or ''ashunau'', etc.
An effort is also made to derive new words from the vocabulary already in use, ''i.e.'', ''xuryavno'' (airplane), ''vortorin'' (slide rule), ''palpaledikhipnasko'' (retrospectively), ''pashnavni'' (adjective). There is an ever-changing set of borrowings from Romanian as well, including such terms as ''vremea'' (weather, time), ''primariya'' (town hall), ''frishka'' (cream), ''sfïnto'' (saint, holy). -based s include ''bijli'' (bulb, electricity), ''misal'' (example), ''chitro'' (drawing, design), ''lekhipen'' (writing), while there are also -based neologisms, like ''printisarel'' < "to print", ''prezidento'' < "president".
Language standardization is presently also being employed in the revival of the Romani language among various groups (in Spain, Great Britain, and elsewhere), which have ceased to speak the language. In these cases, a specific dialect is not revived, but rather a standardized form derived from many dialects is learned.
Romani has lent several words to English, including ''pal'' and ''''[http://everything2.com/index.pl?node=Romani]. These mostly turn up in slang&mdash;such as ''gadgie'' (man), ''shiv'' or ''chiv'' (knife), ''cushty'' or ''cooshtie'' (good) &mdash; and in regional dialects, such as ''radge''  (''adj'' bad or angry, ''noun'' a state of irritation) in northeast England and southeast Scotland and ''jougal'' (dog) in southeast Scotland and ''parni'' (water) and ''bewer'' (woman) in West  in , also seen as ''beor'' in onian slang within . Urban British slang shows an increasing level of Romani influence, with some words becoming accepted into the lexicon of standard English (for example, '''' from an assumed Anglo-Romani word, meaning small boy, in the majority of dialects).
The following table shows the distribution of Romani speakers in Europe according to Bakker et al. (2000) [http://romani.uni-graz.at/rombase/cd/data/lang/gen/data/numbers.en.pdf]. The last column shows the percentage of Romani speakers in the Roma population in each country. 
!Country!! Speakers!! %
</div>
<!-- * [http://www.eurolang.net/Languages/Romani.htm Language background and status] -->
(Note: For links to a variety of Romani media, chatroom and history and culture sites, see in particular the [http://www.llc.manchester.ac.uk/Research/Projects/romani/files/51_media.shtml links pages] of the  Romani project.)