'''Sgt. Max Greevey''' was a fictional character played by  on 's long running drama series, ''''. He was featured on the show throughout its first season, 1990 to 1991. 
Greevey is a  detective working in 's 27th Precinct. It is mentioned in the pilot episode, "Everyone's Favorite Bagman", that he began his career in the 1960s, partnered with  (). By the time of the series, he is promoted to sergeant and partnered with  (), with Cragen as their captain. Greevey is very close to Logan (even while having authority over him), providing his young partner with advice and someone to confide in. Unlike his partner, Greevey is a  fan.
Greevey is happily married to his wife Marie, with three children. His life as a devoted family man, as well as his   faith, often leads him to look down upon people, even  victims, whose lifestyles he disapproves of. He opposes  and, in one episode, is uncomfortable with investigating the bombing of a  clinic.
Greevey also harbors an open distrust of doctors, stemming from an incident in which he was attacked by a suspect who hit him in the head. He began slurring his words and sought advice from a doctor, who pronounced that he had an inoperable . Seeking a second opinion, Greevey learned that he only had a , and a month later was completely healthy.
It was revealed that a former partner of his was shot during a traffic stop. (''L&O'': "A Death in the Family").
In the 1991 episode "Confession", Greevey is fatally shot outside his home, right in front of his family, by a criminal he is investigating. Logan, desperate with , corners and nearly kills Greevey's murderer, relenting only at the last minute. He is nearly fired for this transgression, but gradually comes to accept his partner's death with the help of  (). 
(In this episode, Greevey was played by a stunt double, seen only in shadow, as Dzundza had already left the show at that point.)
Greevey is replaced by  ().
Greevey is mentioned in a 2001 episode of the spinoff series ''''. Prior to his death, Greevey had worked on a case involving the murder of a college student named Jennifer Talmadge, and the disappearance of her infant son, Stephen. He took the case very seriously, working on it on his off time. After his death, Cragen took the case over and kept in touch with her parents. 
In the episode, Cragen, by now the head of the titular sex crimes unit, finds Stephen Talmadge while investigating a corrupt  agency. Cragen and his detectives later determine that the wife of Stephen's biological father killed Jennifer Talmadge and gives Stephen to the adoption agency. In the end, Stephen's biological father wins custody of him.
   