An '''exclusion clause''' is a  in a  that seeks to restrict the rights of the parties to the . Exclusion clauses generally fall into one of these categories:
Traditionally, the district s have sought to limit the operation of exclusion clauses. In addition to numerous  rules limiting their operation, in , the main  interventions are the  and the . The  applies to all contracts, but the , unlike the  rules, do differentiate between s between businesses and s between business and , so the  seems to explicitly recognize the greater possibility of exploitation of the  by businesses.
The s have traditionally held that exclusion clauses only operate if they are actually part of the . There seem to be three methods of incorporation:
For an exclusion clause to operate, it must cover the  (assuming there actually is a breach of contract). If there is, then the type of liability arising is also important. Generally, there are two varieties of :  ( arising due to a state of affairs without the party at breach necessarily being at fault) and  for  ( arising due to fault).
The s have a tendency of requiring the party relying on the clause to have drafted it properly so that it exempts them from the liability arising, and if any ambiguity is present, the courts usually interpret it strictly against the party relying on the clause.
As espoused in ''Darlington Future Ltd v. Delcon Australia Pty Ltd''<ref>(1986) 161 CLR 500</ref>, the meaning of an exclusion clause is construed in its ordinary and natural meaning in the context. Although we construe the meaning much like any other ordinary clause in the , we need to examine the clause in light of the contract as a whole. The judge in ''R + B Custom Brokers Co. Ltd. v United Dominions Trust Ltd.''<ref>[1988] 1 All ER 847</ref> refused to allow an exemption clause, of which did cover the nature of the , on the grounds that it did not make specific and explicit reference to that .<ref>The term in question was the implied term as to fitness-to-purpose pursuant to the Sale of Goods Act 1979 s14(3).</ref>
If, after attempting to construe an exclusion clause (or indeed any other contractual term) in accord with its ordinary and natural meaning of the words, there is still ambiguity then (if the clause was imposed by one party upon the other without negotiation) the  rule applies. Essentially this means that the clause will be construed against the person who imposed its inclusion. that is to say, ''contra'' the ''proferens''.
In  of , the s have taken the approach that it is unlikely that someone would enter into a  that allows the other party to evade fault based . As a result, if a party wishes exempt his  for , he must make sure that the other parties understand that. The decision in ''Canada SS Lines Ltd v. The King''<ref>[1952] AC 192</ref> held that:
In , the ''four corners rule'' has been adopted in preference over the idea of a ''fundamental breach'' (''The Council of the City of Sydney v. West''<ref>(1965) 114 CLR 481</ref>). The court will presume that parties to a contract will not exclude liability for losses arising from acts not authorised under the contract. However, if acts of negligence occur during authorised acts, then the exclusion clauses shall still apply.
If the contract is for the carriage of , if the path is deviated from what was agreed, any exclusion clauses no longer apply.
Even if terms are incorporated into the  and so would be effective, there are various statutory controls over the types of s that may have legal effect. The  renders many exemption clauses ineffective. The  provide further .
<references />