The '''Philadelphia race riot''' took place in the predominantly  neighborhoods of  from  to , . Tensions between black residents of the city and police had been escalating for several months over several well-publicized allegations of . 
This riot was one of the first in the civil rights era and followed the  race riot and the New York City race riot.
The unrest began on the evening of August 28 after a black woman named  got into an  with two police officers (one white, one black). Bradford's car had stalled at 23rd Street and Columbia Avenue. After Bradford refused to comply with the two officers' orders to move the car, because the car had stalled, and she was unable to drive it, an argument ensued. The officers then tried to physically remove Bradford from the car. She resisted and a large crowd assembled in the area. A man tried to come to Bradford's aid by attacking the police officers at the scene, but he and Bradford were arrested.
Rumors then spread throughout North Philadelphia that a pregnant black woman had been beaten to death by white police officers. Later that evening, and throughout the next two days, angry mobs  and burned mostly white-owned businesses in North Philadelphia, mainly along Columbia Avenue. Outnumbered, the police response was to withdraw from the area rather than aggressively confront the rioters. 
Although no one was killed, 341 people were injured, 774 people were arrested and 225 stores were damaged or destroyed in the three days of rioting.
Business activity in North Philadelphia declined even further after the riots, as many of the damaged or destroyed stores never re-opened for business. The riots also helped to facilitate the political rise to power of , who favored more punitive approaches to crime.
In 1987, Columbia Avenue between Front and 33rd Streets was renamed  Avenue after the influential and often controversial Civil Rights leader. Although his role was limited, Moore has been regarded as a pacifying figure who helped quell the rioting. While present-day Cecil B. Moore Avenue is still largely impoverished, it has witnessed redevelopment, including expansion of the  campus, such that the area around  is much more integrated. The  neighborhood has also been suggested as a possible site of .
A fictionalized version of the events of the Philadelphia riots of 1964 are depicted in the first season finale of the  television show .