'''Stephen Gilbert''' ( &ndash;  ) was a   and .  He was one of the few British artists to fully embrace the  movement in Paris in the 1950s.<ref name="Main">[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,60-2554069,00.html Stephen Gilbert | Times Online Obituary<!-- Bot generated title -->]</ref>
Gilbert was born in , in the north-east of , , of English parents.  His father was a commander in the ; his grandfather, Sir  was the  sculptor of  in .<!--brother, Cecil-->
He studied architecture at the  in London from 1929 to 1932, where he befriended fellow student .  Gilbert won the Slade Scholarship at the end of his first year, and the principal Sir  encouraged him to start painting from 1930.  He also met sculptor  at the Slade, and they were married in 1935.
He exhibited at the  in 1936, and put on an early solo show in London, at the  in 1938.  He moved to  in 1937, where his wife studied under , leaving before the .  He failed a medical for military service, and he spent the war in  near  with his wife and son, Humphrey.  He joined  of refugee artists.  His work was inspired by , and by reading ,  and , with fantastic creatures and plants painted in vivid colours.
He returned to Paris in 1946, after the birth of his daughter Frances.  He exhibited at the  in Paris in 1948, attracting the attention of Danish artist , and leading to his membership of the   art group. He was one of only two British member, the other being .  He was  included in the first issue of the group's journal and participated in both major exhibitions: the  in August 1949, where he worked on the collective mural, and the  exhibition at the  in November of that year, where he worked with .   A French art critic described him as "le plus français des sculpteurs anglais et l'un des plus européens parmi les artistes" ("the most French of British sculptors and the most European of artists").
He also visited  in . After his contact with CoBrA, his approach to painting became more abstract, but he remained in contact with  after CoBrA dissolved.  He exhibited several times at the .
During the 1950s, he concentrated on three-dimensional and architectural forms, formed from sheets of .  He joined 's  in 1954, exhibiting at the .  He was also a founder of the  group, and worked with experimental architect .  He moved on to more curvilinear forms, exhibited at the  in London in 1961, and completed two public commissions in London.  He received a  in 1962, and the sculpture prize at the  in 1965.
His wife died in 1979, and his sculpture moved on from open forms to more enclosed structures.  He returned to painting in the 1980s.  Examples of his work are held by many public collections.
He died in  and was survived by his son and daughter. 
 