'''USS ''Trever'' (DD-339/DMS-16/AG-110)''' was a   in the . She was named in memory of .
''Trever'' was built at the . She launched on  , sponsored by Mrs. Bess McMillan Trever (George Trever's widow) and was commissioned on  , Lieutenant H. E. Snow in command.
After shakedown, ''Trever'' was taken out of commission between January 1923 and June 1930.   The ship was recalled to active duty on  , operating out of San Diego with the .  She was reclassified as a high-speed  and redesignated '''DMS-16''' on  , after which she was based at Pearl Harbor in 1941 as part of the Base Force, .
''Trever'' was actively involved in naval operations in the Pacific throughout .
On the morning of   when  launched its aircraft in the , ''Trever'' was moored in West Loch with the minesweeping ships  (DMS-14),  (DMS-15), and  (DMS-17).  She engaged the aircraft with her .50-caliber Browning machine guns was solely responsible for shooting one down, and contributed (with her sister ships) to another plane's demise.  She extremely hurriedly sortied to sea, under the command of the captain of  (DD-391), as many commanding officers were not able to reach their ships before sortie.  ''Trever'''s commanding officer, Lt. Cmdr. Agnew, who had gone to sea on board the ''Wasmuth'', was able to rejoin his ship later that day.  ''Trever'' spent the rest of the year, and beginning of the next, conducting minesweeping operations, local escort missions and antisubmarine patrols.
After escorting a convoy from  to  ''Trever'' was refitted at ''Mare Island'', with her {{convert|4|in|mm|0|sing=on}} guns replaced by 3-inch antiaircraft (AA) guns and 20 mm Oerlikon  cannons.  
''Trever'' next saw action in the first US amphibious assault of the war against the  with the aim of securing .  At first she screened transports and then joined the bombardment of a Japanese shore battery on the island of ; she scored a direct hit and the battery was destroyed. Later she used her AA guns to drive off bombers that had attacked transport ships.  The following day ''Trever'' shot down four twin-engined  "Betty" bombers.
On that evening, , a Japanese cruiser force conducted a surprise attack on the allied (US and Australian) fleet, now known as the .  The outcome was a very heavy defeat for the allies, with 4 cruisers sunk and one severely damaged.  However, the Japanese fleet did not press its advantage and the vulnerable transports supporting the invasion escaped unscathed.  As a result of the battle the Allied warships withdrew and the transports retreated to  (whose withdrawal ''Trever'' helped to screen).  The invasion was subsequently supported by high-speed transports, including ''Trever'' herself. Her first mission was from   to Guadalcanal, loaded with reinforcements and supplies for the hard-pressed marines.  After hastily unloading she retired toward Noumea, arriving there on .  After escorting a further high-speed convoy to replenish land forces engaged on the Solomons she was deployed to search for survivors of the , fought on the night of .
During the day's search, ''Trever'' took on board 34 enemy survivors, including three officers. One raft of eight refused to surrender and put up a fight, giving ''Trever'' no recourse but to destroy it and its occupants. ''Trever'' then transferred her prisoners to the transport ''McCawley'' and headed back to Espiritu Santo escorting the returning transports.
After completing another resupply mission, on , ''Trever'' had been expecting orders to bombard Japanese positions along Guadalcanal's coast. However, an intercepted message informed Lt. Cmdr. Agnew of ''Trever'' that three Japanese destroyers were approaching, apparently to bombard the airstrip at .
Two choices were open to Lt. Cmdr. Agnew, who was commanding the task unit (''Trever'' and ''Zane''). One was to head for the  to join  (PG-55) and the damaged  (AVD-14) which were both well camouflaged. By following this plan, ''Zane'' and ''Trever'', both uncamouflaged, might attract the Japanese into the area and raise a strong possibility of the destruction of all four highly vulnerable American ships. Accordingly, the ships attempted the alternative, a dash for safety.
The two old minecraft got underway and accelerated as fast as possible to clear the area. Some fifteen minutes later the Japanese destroyers' silhouettes came over the horizon, hull-down and travelling at high speed.  The American ships could only manage {{convert|29|kn|mph km/h|0}} and the Japanese, making {{convert|35|kn|mph km/h|0}}, gained rapidly and opened fire with their {{convert|5.5|in|mm|0|sing=on}} guns while still out of range of the Americans' 3-inch armament. The first enemy shells overshot and sent up fountains of water several hundred yards ahead of the minecraft; the next salvo fell some {{convert|300|yd|m|-2}} astern.
The American ships used evasive action and returned fire from their {{convert|3|in|mm|0|sing=on}} guns as Japanese salvos exploded into nearby sea. The Japanese then hit ''Zane'' amidships, killing three men.
Agnew now decided that his ships' best chance of survival would come from attempt to make a high speed transit of shoal-studded Niella Channel. Just as the Americans were changing course, the Japanese broke off the action, perhaps remembering their primary mission.
After continuing resupply runs through January 1943, ''Trever'' then steamed to Australia for overhaul, arriving at Sydney on . 
She returned to Espiritu Santo on  before calling at , on .
Returning to escort duties, she accompanied  from  to the  on  . After nightfall, a twin-float Japanese biplane — a "" — came over and dropped bombs on the two ships, sending them to general quarters and provoking a return fire from ''Trever's'' 20-millimeter guns.
The old destroyer minesweeper next took part in operations in the  campaign. On the 29th, Rear Admiral  raised his flag on ''Trever'' as Commander, TG 31.3. That night, in company with  (APD-14),  (APD-5), and seven  (LCIs), ''Trever'' departed Wernham Cove, Russell Islands. At daybreak the next morning, the APDs launched their landing boats. The troops landed at Oliana Bay, taking the Japanese defenders by surprise. Later that day, with the objective secured, Rear Admiral Fort disembarked at Renard Sound ending ''Trever'''s brief role as flagship.
On , American forces attacked at  to occupy Rice Anchorage and thus to prevent Japanese reinforcements from reaching Munda from Vila. ''Trever'' transported infantry and joined bombardment and transport groups in the assault.
On , ''Trever'' joined  (CL-48), which had lost her bow to a "long-lance" torpedo during the , and escorted the damaged cruiser from Espiritu Santo to Pearl Harbor. On , ''Trever'' got underway to escort an east-bound convoy to San Francisco.
After a month's overhaul at Mare Island, ''Trever'' steamed for Pearl Harbor on  and touched there briefly before heading for Guadalcanal. On , she joined the screen for  (AP-35) and escorted her to . Later that month, ''Trever'' took part in the landings at , .
''Trever'' devoted the next year to escort missions and target towing duty in the South and Central Pacific. Perhaps the highlight of this service came in October 1944 when she joined the screen for torpedoed cruisers  (CL-81) and  (CA-70) and escorted them safely to Ulithi.
On , as she was escorting a convoy toward the Western Carolines, ''Trever'' was caught in a . Visibility dropped to zero due to torrential rains, with mountainous waves and {{convert|90|kn|mph km/h|-1|sing=on}} winds. At 16:30, a man making emergency repairs topside was washed overboard, and ''Trever'' immediately began a search for the missing sailor. Two hours later, she picked up her man: bruised, battered, and in shock — but alive.
The following day, ''Trever'' put into  and transferred her injured seaman to the naval hospital on shore. On , she reached . On , she and Army transport Santa Isabel got underway for Hawaii, arriving at Pearl Harbor on the last day of 1944. ''Trever'' reached the Naval Repair Base, San Diego and began overhaul on  .
Upon completion of her repairs, she headed for Oahu on  . For the remainder of the war, ''Trever'' operated out of Pearl Harbor, where she had entered the hostilities with Japan four years before. On  , she was reclassified as a miscellaneous auxiliary and designated as '''AG-110'''.
On  , she departed Pearl Harbor for the last time and steamed to San Diego. After repairs, she proceeded via the  to , where she arrived on  . She was decommissioned on  , struck from the  on  , and sold for scrapping on  .
''Trever'' received five s for her World War II service.
, no other ship have been named ''Trever''.