'''Thelytoky''' or thelytokous  is a type of parthenogenesis in which females are produced from unfertilized eggs. It is rare in the  and has only been reported in about 1500 .<ref>White M (1984). Chromosomal mechanisms in animal reproduction. Bull Zool 51: 1–23.</ref> It is more common in , like , but can also occur in , like some .  (s, s and s) for example, are  and usually reproduce by , in which unfertilized eggs develop into  males, and fertilized eggs develop into  females but thelytoky has been described in several , including , , , ,  and .<ref>Suomalainen E, Saura A, Lokki J (1987). Cytology and Evolution in Parthenogenesis. CRC Press Inc.: Boca Raton, FL.</ref> It can also be induced in  by the bacteria  and Cardinium.<ref>G. Jeong and Stouthamer, R. (2005) Genetics of female functional virginity in the Parthenogenesis-''Wolbachia'' infected parasitoid wasp Telenomus nawai (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae). ''Heredity''  94:402-407</ref>
Thelytoky can occur by a number of different mechanisms each of which has a different impact on the level of .  
An example of thelytoky is the reproduction of female s or s by s.  It occurs in the Cape bee, '''' and has been found in other strains at very low frequency. In s, thelytoky occurs when diploidy is restored by the fusion of two meiotic products.<ref>E. Baudry et al. (2004) Whole-Genome Scan in Thelytokous-Laying Workers of the Cape Honey bee  (Apis mellifera capensis): Central Fusion, Reduced Recombination Rates and Centromere Mapping Using Half-Tetrad Analysis. ''Genetics'' 167:243-252</ref> Usually, unfertilized eggs are haploid containing only a single set of chromosomes (16) from the mother.  Cape bee laying workers are capable of laying unfertilized diploid (32 chromosomes) eggs. These eggs undergo an unusual .  One stage during  is  when the chromosomes separate.  In  (the reproduction without male ), anaphase is followed by fusion of two meiotic products to restore egg diploidy (the egg  and the central descendant of the first  fuse to form a diploid nucleus called ). Depending on how the  (diploid egg) is fed it can develop into a worker bee or a queen bee.