The '''J class''' were  with the wheel arrangement of  that were built in  to operate on the  network of .  They should not be confused with the more famous  of .  The original J class was the first class of locomotive in New Zealand to have a ; all previous classes were .
The first batch built consisted of six locomotives and they entered service in  in , with the total amount of class members brought to a total of 32 over the subsequent years.  They spread beyond Canterbury and could also be found working in , , and .  The J class worked well whether it was pulling a long goods train or operating important passenger services in the early days of the , but as traffic increased, it was superseded by more powerful locomotives and in -, four members of the class were converted to  tank engines to perform shunting duties in yards.  By , all 32 original J class locomotives had reached the end of their usefulness and were discarded, and sadly none survived to be preserved.
Although none were preserved, relics of J class locomotives can still be seen to this day at sites where the  dumped withdrawn equipment.  A locomotive dump near  had five J class engines dumped there, Js 15, 82, 83, 116, and 117, although some of these locomotives have since been sucked out to sea or destroyed by the waves.  This dump was also the location of  120, which was one of the J's rebuilt as tank engines.  Elsewhere, J 61 was dumped cylinderless at Branxholme; 2 J class boilers and tenders still exist at the Omoto Racecourse dump site; and a J class locomotive is known to have been dumped along the  between Cass and , but the loco has yet to be discovered.  Although the J class remains at Oamaru are beyond restoration, the idea has been floated that perhaps one will be preserved in its current state by either the local Oamaru museum or the  for its National Museum project as an example of dumped locomotives. It is also possible for another J to be recovered and restored to full working order, and although there have long been hopes for this to occur amongst the railfan community, so far no-one has undertaken such an endeavour.