'''Smirnoff''' is a brand of vodka now owned and produced by  drinks giant . Products under the Smirnoff brand, which began with a   founded in  by Piotr Arsenieyevich Smirnov, is now  in 130 countries and includes flavored vodka and s. Smirnoff vodka is both the best selling vodka and the best selling high-priced distilled spirit in the world as of March 2006.<ref>[http://sev.prnewswire.com/food-beverages/20060410/NYM05810042006-1.html Diageo North America :: SMIRNOFF(R) Vodka is the World's #1-Selling Premium Distilled Spirit<!-- Bot generated title -->]</ref>
Piotr Smirnov first founded his vodka distillery in Moscow in the 1860s, under the trading name of PA Smirnoff. He died in 1910 and was succeeded by Vladimir Smirnov. The company flourished and produced more than 4 million cases of vodka per year.
During the , the distillery was confiscated and the family had to flee. Vladimir Smirnov re-established the factory in 1920 in . Four years later he moved to  (formerly Poland, now , Ukraine) and started to sell the vodka under the contemporary  spelling of the name, "Smirnoff". The new product was a success and by the end of 1930 it was exported to most European countries. An additional distillery was founded in  in 1925. 
In the 1930s Vladimir met Rudolph Kunett, a Russian who had emigrated to America in 1920. The Kunett family had been a supplier of spirits to Smirnoff in Moscow before the Revolution. In 1933 Vladimir sold Kunett the right to begin producing Smirnoff vodka in North America. However, the business in America was not as successful as Kunett had hoped. In 1938 Kunett couldn't afford to pay for the necessary sales licenses, and contacted John Martin, president of Heublein, who agreed to buy the rights to Smirnoff. 
Thanks to the introduction of vodka cocktails and successful advertisement campaigns, Smirnoff increased in popularity both in the US and internationally.  
During the 1990s one of Piotr Smirnov's descendants started producing Smirnov ( in Ukraine) vodka in Ukraine, claiming to be "The Only Real Smirnov". After a number of lawsuits Smirnoff successfully claimed back the trademark, whilst in 2006  tied up a joint venture deal with the Смирновъ company. [http://vls.law.vill.edu/locator/3d/Sept2001/995422.txt]
The Smirnoff company has the naming rights to the , a concert amphitheatre in . They also sponsor the , a major venue at the .
In the late 1990s Smirnoff introduced a series of new products onto the  and later the an and n market, which quickly became popular among young people, especially within the  (See "''''").  
There are two different products by the name of '''''Smirnoff Ice'''''.  One, sold in the United States and France, is a citrus-flavoured  (5.5% ) with variants in 'Original,' and 'Triple Black.'  The other, sold in Europe (excluding France), Latin America, Australia and Canada, is a premixed vodka drink. It also has variants in 'Original' and 'Black Ice' (or in some markets, 'Triple Black' or 'Double Black'), ranging from 5% to 7%  in different markets.
'''''Smirnoff Ice Twisted''''' was a spin-off of the American Smirnoff Ice that featured flavors such as Mandarin Orange and Green Apple. Confusion in branding between Smirnoff Twist Vodka and Smirnoff Twisted Malt Beverage resulted in the decision to drop the "Twisted" from the flavored line of Smirnoff Ice. Current flavors include Watermelon, Wild Grape, Pomegranate Fusion, Arctic Berry (Blueberry), Green Apple Bite and Raspberry Burst. 
The next line of Smirnoff's malt beverages to hit shelves was their "Raw Teas" in flavors like Peach and Raspberry. This product line has been marketed most notably with the "" music video and website. It is similar to the brand .
The newest product from Smirnoff is '''''Smirnoff Source''''', an ultra-premium beer-alternative created with alcohol and spring water released in May of 2007. It is citrus flavored and lightly carbonated with 3.5% ABV.  
A line of fruit flavoured vodkas with the "Twist" moniker appended on the end of the name have also been introduced. Flavors include Green Apple, Orange, Cranberry, Raspberry, Citrus (Lemon), Vanilla, Strawberry, Black Cherry, Watermelon, Lime, and, most recently, Blueberry.
Smirnoff trialed in the UK and Canada during 2004 a new blend of vodka entitled Smirnoff Penka. Marketing and distribution was handled by The Reserve Brands of Diageo plc.  Penka continues to be available in the UK [http://www.fluidtrade.co.uk/breakingnews.aspx?NewsType_ID=7].
It is a common misconception that Smirnoff Red Label Vodka purchased in plastic containers (PET) is of lower quality, however, this is untrue, and both the varieties purchased in glass and plastic containers are numbered the same, at 21.
'''Smirnov''' ( '''Смирнов''') can be seen as the n version of Piotr Smirnov's Smirnoff vodka. It is made by the '''Smirnov Trading House''', a company owned as part of a joint venture by Russia's A1 /  and , owner of the .
The full title of the Smirnov Trading House is ''The Trading House of the Heirs of the P.A. Smirnov''.
Smirnov was launched in 1991 by Boris Smirnov, an offspring of the original producer of the spirit, Piotr Smirnov. After many lawsuits with Smirnoff's parent company, which resulted the Diageo brand being banned in the , the Russian brand became a sister product to , as well as ,  and  in Diageo's portfolio of drinks due to $50 share-offer for 75% of the Russian firm.