 with battle scene between Romans and Germans. , work, 180–190 AD.]]
 refers to the  of . Roman sculpture often involved copying of Ancient . Much Roman sculpture survives, although some of it is damaged. There are many surviving sculptures of Roman emperors. While Roman sculpture copied from the Greeks, it emphasized the individual to a greater extent, and many busts of famous but also anonymous people have survived. s of rich citizens often exhibit portraits of the deceased carved in relief, and  may also be richly decorated. 
Classical Roman sculpture began with the sack of  in  during the  with Carthage. A wealthy outpost of Greek civilization on the island of , Syracuse was thoroughly plundered and most of its magnificent  sculpture was taken to Rome where it replaced the earlier styles of the  tradition. The Romans continued to admire the Hellenistic style, and eventually workshops throughout the Greek world (especially ) provided the statuary without which no   was complete. 
Greek artists settled in Rome after  was conquered in , and many of these began making copies of Greek sculptures, which were popular in Rome.
Many sculptures were made of the Emperor  which portrayed him as a young man, and at later stages of his life.  of following emperors were common and widely distributed. 
During 's time, art from the eastern provinces of the empire began to have more influence on Roman sculpture.
Another example of Roman sculpture on a monumental scale is the  of the .
Relief sculptures were shallow three dimensional carvings on flat surfaces, used for architectural works such as columns, arches and Temples. An example of this type of sculpture would be the  (Altar of Peace) from 13 - 9 B.C. The Ara Pacis was a monument to the Pax Romana (The Roman Peace), 200 years of peace and prosperity ushered in by Emperor Augustus.
A famous later example of relief sculpture is , dating from 106 - 113 A.D. adorned with scenes of Trajan's battles from the wars in  in a continuous spiral around the column. The frieze shows numerous incidents from the campaigns, with many details showing soldiers at work, such as building forts or manning . A plaster replica of the column is exhibited in the  in . The  is another example of the genre.
The most important free standing sculptures were statues. Most Roman statues were destroyed during the many barbarian invasions of the empire,  or by Christian rebuilding. The marble was burned for lime and the very valuable bronze melted down for re-use. 
An outstanding example of a piece that survived is the  (Marcus Aurelius on a horse), dating from 161 - 180 A.D. Legend has it that the emperor's imposing demeanor spared the piece from destruction. It is now protected in a museum environment, with a replica outside in . 
Common locations for statues were in the , the public baths or , and the city  (the social and commercial centre of the town).