'''''Project Gotham Racing 3''''' ('''''PGR3''''' for short) is an arcade-style  that was released with the launch of the  on   for the US market and   in Europe, and was released on   in Japan.  Developed by , it is the third installment in the . ''Project Gotham Racing 3'' was rated by '''' (OXM) to be Xbox 360 "Game Of The Year" (2005). OXM also recently rated it "Best 1st Person (Not Shooter) of the Year", because of its realistic inside-car view.
This game was featured on the  demo in stores.
A sequel has been released under the title ''''.<ref>{{cite web | url=http://www.oxm.co.uk/news/racing/gotham_4_will_go_even_faster! | title=Bizarre Says Project Gotham 4 Will Go Even Faster | publisher=Official Xbox Magazine (UK) | accessdate=2006-11-29}}</ref>
''PGR3'' offers players four cities - , , , and , as well as the  - to race through.
''PGR3'' features 80 licensed cars from over 30 manufacturers such as ,  and .
In ''PGR2'' the car models were comprised of 10,000 s and damage looks like it was made of clay, but with the next generation hardware's power Bizarre's modelers have been able to put as many as 105,000 polygons worth of detail into the cars, although it was initially stated that most cars comprise of 80,000- with 40,000 of those being spent on the exterior and the remaining 40,000 on the interior, Bizarre issued a statement of apology stating that the average polygons per car is actually closer to 96,000.<ref>http://www.bizarreonline.net/news_article.php?action=fullnews&showcomments=1&id=61</ref> The increased polygon count allows for smoother, less jagged-shaped cars than in earlier games. Of the 80 cars in the game, 71 are unlocked and available for play at the start of a new game, while the remaining 9 (prototypes, one-offs, and concept) cars are left for the player to unlock after attaining a new rank in their career count of earned Kudos.
On   Bizarre made the ''PGR3'' ''Speed Pack'' containing 12 new cars available for download on the . On   Bizarre and Microsoft formed an advertising deal with  to feature four of Cadillac's cars in ''PGR3'', all available on Live Marketplace for free (three were also available in-game for free). On  , the third downloadable car pack for ''PGR3'', the ''Style Pack'' was released with a total of twelve cars and made available for a small number of points.
Unlike ''PGR2'', where new cars were bought using Kudos Tokens (gained by reaching accumulated Kudos milestones known as Kudos Ranks), new cars are bought with virtual cash (credits) in ''PGR3''. Credits are gained by winning online races, earning Kudos, which are like style points and winning offline tournaments. The cars in the game retail for their rough real-world showroom value.
Also unlike ''PGR2'', there are no Porsches to be found, apart from one which can be purchased once one has earned 90,000 "Kudos" in career mode.But to make up for the lack of Porsches, Porsche-based RUF is used, originally reserved for ''''. This is due to the licensing agreement between  and  games.
Unlike PGR2, which focuses on production vehicles, PGR3 focuses on supercars. The series would, however, return to production cars in the fourth installment.
Similar to its prequels, each car in ''PGR3'' is allocated to a specific class. There are five classes, A through E, the high performance cars being Class A, and the low performance cars in Class E.
''PGR3'' allows multiplayer offline with up to two players on one Xbox 360 console or more players via . ''PGR3'' offers online integrated s for single player career events as well as  and test track times. 
Gamers with  Gold are able to race with up to seven other competitors in races online. Online career (ranked) and playtime (unranked) are both offered as online multiplayer modes. s also track standings for online career.
''PGR3'' also allows for online tournaments, the first of which was the ''PGR3'' Global Tournament, won by a Swedish player.
''PGR3'' has a new feature known as GothamTV.  With this, gamers connected to the  service are able to watch selected online career races. Live ticker-tape information is also available providing information on when top racers are on GothamTV or when a gamer breaks track records. Up to 30,000  spectators are able to watch a selected race.
 once again play an important part in ''Project Gotham''. Kudos points are given for stylish driving, for example drifting around a corner, drafting, or getting two or four wheels off the ground.  Different sets of points can be linked using a combo, by performing more stylish maneuvers before the Kudos become 'banked' (in ''PGR2'' this cut-off time was 2 seconds).  When combos are linked up, you are given a bonus for keeping them linked together, and this builds up to huge amounts if the combo is held for a substantial length of time.  This bonus is however lost if the player crashes into any barriers, though the base Kudos (all but the combo bonus) are kept.
PGR3 is also included in the  and the  .
In the first two installments, there were radio stations in each city.  However ''PGR3'' does not offer any of the city's radio stations like in the first two games. Songs in the game include  by .
The game scores 88% on  based on 92 reviews. 
The game scored 88% on  based on 74 reviews (based on 94 votes from metacritic.com users, ''Project Gotham Racing'' scored 8.2 out of 10). The game also scored 92% from , with it being one of the only 13 to be rated above 90%.
''PGR2'' featured a well known , a player could play an old arcade machine type game named ''Geometry Wars''. The game has been revamped by  for inclusion in ''PGR3''. It is similar to the classic games '''' and '''', though far more advanced graphically whilst keeping the same basic gameplay aesthetic. This hidden mini-game even features its very own Xbox Live scoreboard. It is also downloadable on .
<references />