 | image = 
 | parent = 
 | founded = 1924, Germany
 | distributor =  ()<br>Polydor Records (Outside US)
 | genre = Various
 | country = ;  (re-issues and/or domestic distribution of overseas releases - only)
 | url = [http://www.polydor.co.uk/ www.polydor.co.uk]
'''Polydor Records''' is a  currently headquartered in the , and is a subsidiary of . 
Polydor was originally an independent branch of the .  Its name was first used, as an export label, in , the British and German branches of the  having severed their ties during .  Deutsche Grammophon claimed the rights to the '''' trademark for Germany, where  recordings were released under the  .  In turn, DGG records exported out of Germany were released on the Polydor label.  Deutsche Grammophon lost its rights to the ''His Master's Voice'' trademark to  and its Electrola label as part of Germany's surrender terms at the end of .  
Polydor became a  label in 1946 while the famously yellow Deutsche Grammophon seal became a  label. No Frenchman, though, could be expected to buy (or pronounce!) a product labelled Deutsche Grammophon Gesellschaft, so Polydor remained Deutsche Grammophon's export label, including Classical music, in France and the Spanish-speaking world for the remainder of the long-playing era.
In the early 1960s  leader  signed unknowns  and the Beat Brothers to Polydor. The Beat Brothers were, of course, to become , and less than two years later, with a new drummer and new haircuts and now signed to , became one of the biggest and most influential groups the world has ever seen.
Popular German entertainers such as , Bert Kaempfert, ,  and the  appeared on the Polydor label, as well as many French, Spanish and Latin-American figures.
In , Polydor merged with giant  owned  to create  in the .  The ''Polydor'' label continued to run as a subsidiary label under the new company.  Polydor later took interest in the  in , but lost to .
Into the 1980s, Polydor continued to do respectable business, in spite of becoming increasingly overshadowed by its PolyGram sister label .  Polydor took over management of  pop catalog.   manager Frank Neilson was able to score a major top ten hit in March  for the label with "Do The Hucklebuck" by  as well as signing ,  and the  to the company.   In , the company name was parodied in the  film '''' (whose  was distributed by Polydor), where " Records" were the band's record company.  By the early 1990s, Polydor began to under perform.  PolyGram, subsequently, trimmed most of Polydor's staff and roster, and shifted it to operate under the umbrella of '''PolyGram Label Group''' (PLG), a newly constructed 'super label' specifically designed to oversee the operations of PolyGram's lesser performing imprints (including: , , , .)
In , as Island Records recovered from its sales slump, PolyGram dissolved most of PLG into it. Meanwhile, Polydor Records and Atlas Records merged, briefly called "Polydor/Atlas," and was shifted over to operate under another , another PolyGram subsidiary. In , Polydor/Atlas became simply Polydor Records again.
Over the next few years, Polydor tried to keep itself afloat with new artist signings, new releases, and reissues, but ultimately continued to become more and more dormant.  In 1998, PolyGram was purchased by  and absorbed into its . During the consolidation of these two music giants, Polydor's US operations were dismantled, while its overseas branch remained intact with its records continuing to be distributed domestically through A&M and its new partner Interscope Records. However, North American re-issues of pre-1998 Polydor releases are handled through  and .[http://www.towerrecords.com/epulse/98/nov/11_20_98.html] Today, in America, the Polydor Records name and logo is mostly used on reissues of older material from its 1960s and 1970s heyday.
Though Polydor's  branch is defunct, in the United Kingdom, however, Polydor continues to sign chart-topping acts and remains one of the strongest imprints in the country — with artists such as , , ,  and . It also acts as the UK label for American-based acts under  like  and .
In Spring 2006, Polydor launched , a music label dedicated to pop music. Both  and  transferred to the new label.
In 2008, Polydor picked up distribution of ' back catalogue as well as new releases.[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/7525887.stm]