'''Sir Tiruvarur Mutuswamy Aiyar''' (-), was a native  judge of  during the British colonial era. Hewas born of poor parents in the village of , near , on the 28th of January 1832. His widowed mother was forced by poverty to remove with Mutuswamy and his brother to , where the former learnt , and soon set to work under the village accountant at a monthly salary of one rupee. About this time he lost his mother, whose memory he cherished with reverence and affection to the last. His duty took him to the courthouse of the '''', Mr. Naiken, who soon remarked his extraordinary intelligence and industry. There was an English school at Tiruvarar, where Mutuswamy managed to pick up an elementary knowledge of the . Naiken then sent him to Sir 's school at Madras, as a companion to his nephew, and there he won prizes and scholarships year after year. In  he won a prize of 500 s offered to the students of the Madras presidency by the council of education for the best English essay. This success brought him to the notice of Sir  and Mr. Justice Holloway. He was offered help to proceed to  and compete for the , but being a  and married, he declined to cross the ocean. Instead he entered the subordinate government service, and was employed in such various posts as school-teacher, record-keeper in Tanjore, and in  deputy-inspector of schools. At this time the Madras authorities instituted the examination for the office of pleaders, and Mutuswamy came out first in the first examination, even beating Sir T. , his senior by many years. Mutuswamy was then appointed in succession district ''munsiff'' at , deputy-collector in Tanjore in , sub-judge of south  in , and a magistrate of police at Madras in . While serving in the last post he passed the examination for the degree of bachelor of laws of the local university. He was next employed as a judge of the Madras small causes court, until in  he was raised to the bench of the high court, which office he occupied with ability and distinction for over fifteen years, sometimes acting as the chief justice. He attended by invitation of the  the imperial assemblage at  in . In 1878 he received the honour of C.I.E. and in  the K.C.I.E. () was conferred on him. But he did not live long to enjoy this dignity, dying suddenly in . Mutuswamy was too devoted to his official work to give much time to other pursuits. Still he took his full share in the affairs of the Madras university, of which he was nominated a fellow in  and a  in , and was well acquainted with English law, literature and philosophy. He was throughout life a staunch Brahmin, devout and amiable in character, with a taste for the ancient music of India and the study of the '''' and other departments of .