'''Michael Asen I of Bulgaria''' (: Михаил Асен I, ''Mihail Asen I''; often inconsistently styled ''Michael II Asen''), ruled as emperor () of  from  to .  He was the son of  and his third wife Eirene (nun Xene), daughter of  of the .  Michael Asen I was born between  and  and died in .
Michael Asen I was still a child when he ascended the throne in succession to his brother . It is assumed that his mother Eirene took over the government as regent, but there is little evidence to prove this hypothesis.  At the news of a second underage monarch on the Bulgarian throne, the neighboring powers, the , the  and the , invaded Bulgaria and annexed significant territories.  The losses included  to Nicaea, much of  to Epirus, and the  area and the banate of Severin to Hungary.  In spite of the losses, in  Bulgaria was forced to aid Nicaea against the .  
In  the government of Michael Asen I concluded a commercial and military treaty with the  (a.k.a. ) directed against  of .  The Bulgarian attempt to conquer Serbia failed completely in spite of an inroad deep into Serbian territory.
The death of  in  inspired an attempt by the Bulgarians to recover the lands lost to Nicaea. By this time Michael Asen I was coming of age and he participated in the campaign, which met with initial success, overrunning Thrace and obtaining the surrender of various fortresses in the  area by the sympathetic local population.  However, the swift advance of the new emperor of Nicaea  caught the Bulgarians by surprise, and Michael Asen I suffered accidental wounds during his precipitous flight through a forest.  In the following year, , Michael Asen I attempted to strike back with an army of  ''foederati'' and again obtained some initial success.  In  the belligerents concluded a peace essentially reflecting conditions before the war.
The meagre sources leave the impression that Michael Asen I spent most of his reign under the influence of one or another powerful figure at court.  This role was first fulfilled by his mother Eirene.  By the treaty with Dubrovnik in 1253, the sources single out the ''sebastokratōr'' Peter, who had married Michael Asen I's sister Anna (or Theodora).  The last years of Michael Asen I's reign seem to reflect the influence of , a Russian prince of the house of , who had settled in Hungary, married Anna, a daughter of King  and Maria Laskarina of , and had become ban of the Belgrade area.  Probably about this time Michael Asen I married a daughter (it is not certain which one) of Rostislav, and in 1256 Rostislav served as an intermediary at the signing of the peace treaty with Nicaea.
Perhaps infuriated with the concessions of Michael Asen I and his father-in-law in the peace treaty, a group of nobles rallied around the emperor's cousin .  During a hunting trip in the vicinity of the capital , Kaliman Asen murdered Michael Asen I and usurped the throne.    