__NOTOC__
'''Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park''' is a large  preserve and  area in southern . The park straddles the border between  and  and comprises two adjoining national parks: '''Kalahari Gemsbok National Park''' in South Africa and '''Gemsbok National Park''' in Botswana. The total area of the park is 38000 km² (14,668 mi²). Approximately three-quarters of the park lies in Botswana and one-quarter in South Africa.
Kgalagadi means ''place of thirst''. The park is located largely within the southern . The terrain consists of red s, sparse , occasional trees, and the dry riverbeds of the  and s. The rivers are said to flow only about once per century. However, water flows underground and provides life for grass and  trees growing in the river beds. The rivers may flow briefly after large thunderstorms, a cause for celebration among the wildlife, who will flock to the river beds and slake their eternal thirst.
, or oryx, for which the original parks were named]]
The park has abundant, varied wildlife. It is home to large ian predators such as black-maned Kalahari s, s, s, and s. Migratory herds of large  such as blue , , , and red  also live and move seasonally within the park, providing sustenance for the predators. More than 200 species of bird can be found in the park, including s and  such as s, s, and s.
The weather in the Kalahari can reach extremes. January is midsummer in southern Africa and the daytime temperatures are often in excess of 40 °C (104 °F). Winter nights can be quite cold with temperatures below freezing. Extreme temperatures of &ndash;11 °C and up to 45 °C have been recorded. Precipitation is sparse in this desert area.
Within the park there are three traditional tourist lodges, called "rest camps". These are full-service lodges and include amenities such as air conditioning, shopping, and swimming pools. There are also six wilderness camps in the park. The wilderness camps provide little more than shelter and wash water; visitors must supply their own food, drinking water, and firewood.
The Kalahari Gemsbok National Park in South Africa was established on 31 July 1931 mainly to protect the migrating game, especially the gemsbok, from poaching. In 1948 an informal verbal agreement was made between the then  and the  to set up a conservation area in the contiguous areas of the two lands. In June 1992 representatives from the  Board (now SANParks) and the Department of Wildlife and National Parks of Botswana set up a joint management committee to manage the area as a single ecological unit. A management plan was drafted, reviewed, and approved in 1997. The parties agreed to cooperate in tourism and share equally in park entrance fees. On 7 April 1999, Botswana and South Africa signed a historic bilateral agreement whereby both countries undertook to manage their adjacent national parks, the Gemsbok National Park in Botswana and the Kalahari Gemsbok National Park in South Africa as a single ecological unit. The boundary between the two parks had no physical barriers, although it is also the international border between the two countries. This allowed for the free movement of animals. On 12 May 2000, President  of Botswana and President  of South Africa formally launched Southern Africa's first , the Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park.
In October 2002, the governments set aside 580 km² (224 mi²) for the use of the native peoples, the  and Mier communities. This was divided between 277.69 km² of San Heritage Land and 301.34 km² of Mier Heritage Land. The South African National Parks (SANParks) manages the land under contract. The native communities retain commercial benefits and rights, as well as the use of the land for symbolic and culture purposes.