'''Edward "Ed" George Farhat''' (,  - , ) was an   best known as by his  '''The Sheik''' (or '''The Original Sheik''' to distinguish him from , a wrestler from the 1980s). He was the owner and operator of Big Time Wrestling, one of the most successful  during the 1960s. He is also one of the originators of what became the  style, and the uncle of former   wrestler .
He was a staunch believer in , even going so far as to hurl fireballs at fans that recognized him on the street in order to keep his persona in "civilian" situations. He also maintained kayfabe with own family, he went as far as to have his own grandchildren call him 'Grandpa Sheik'. Furthermore, Shiek's nephew  stated when people would call Sheik's house and ask for "Edward" (Sheik's real first name), Sheik would say that nobody by that name lived in his house and would hang up the phone.  stated in an audio interview that The Sheik taught him to "Protect the business and then protect your opponent."
Edward Farhat was born to a family of  immigrants in . He was a star  player in  and college for the  and served in the army during  before he became a foreign  as "The Sheik of Araby" or later, just "The Sheik."  He started out wrestling in the Midwest and later in  but his biggest match was one he didn't wrestle in.  He was set to face   in  for his title but Thesz had a reputation for exposing and embarrassing  wrestlers so Farhat bailed from the ring and hid under a bus. The publicity from the event helped push the Sheik character to a more prominent level. He went to  for  where he teamed with  and  in feuds against  and  as well as the team of  and  in . He returned when McMahon formed the  to feud with  in the WWF's major markets in the late 1960s.
The Sheik's wrestling was centered around his character of a rich wild man from . He locked on normally mundane holds and refuse to break them, leading to submission. He used hidden s to cut open his opponent's faces. Often, the tactic backfired and the opponent got the pencil, leading to the extensive scarring on Farhat's forehead. The other illegal move was his  that he threw into his opponents faces and they  as if their face was burnt severely. He didn't speak on camera and had two different  during his career to cut  on his behalf. His first manager was  but when he managed full-time in WWWF,  became his manager. He kept in character even around his own family, only breaking character around business partners.  The character was very easy to go from territory to territory with and Farhat was often brought in as a special attraction for big shows or by  promoters who were fighting opposition promotions.
His biggest feud was his seemingly career long feud with  in the Sheik's main territory, which he later became the owner of, . The two feuded over Sheik's version of the United States Championship, frequently selling out the . This is seen briefly on the "documentary" movie, ''I Like to Hurt People.'' The two took the feud to several markets, most notably  and . His other major opponent in Los Angeles was . Sheik and Blassie faced off several times, including cage matches in the .  
Starting in 1969, he also wrestled regularly in , where he was undefeated for 127 matches at . He defeated the likes of , , , , , ,  and even  during Andre's first extensive tour of North America in 1974. It was Andre who put an end to the Sheik's Toronto winning streak in August 1974. Sheik continued to headline most shows in Toronto until 1977, but business dropped off significantly over the last three years.
He was brought to  by the  to help put over  after  and  jumped to start their own promotions. His run was successful but management squandered all the money so when the company went bankrupt, Sheik jumped to Baba's . He jumped a year later to Inoki's  but had a falling out and left Japan to work full time in Detroit. He returned in 1977 for All Japan, teaming and feuding with . His match with Abdullah the Butcher against Dory Funk, Jr. and  where Terry fought off Butcher and Sheik with his arm in a sling is credited for turning the foreign Funks into faces in Japan.
After his promotion went bankrupt in 1980, he wrestled for various independent promotions throughout the United States and Japan through the 1980s. In 1994, he had a brief run in  where he teamed with  against  and . He wrestled his last match in Japan in 1998 at the age of 72. 
Sheik retired to his estate and was in the process of writing his autobiography when he died on ,  of heart failure at the age of 76.  Fortunately, his biographer retained several completed chapters along with extensive recorded oral interviews with both Sheik and his wife. 
 
As a promoter, he was somewhat ahead of his time. He had a production truck travel with him to tape the main events in an era when arena shows were almost never taped. He also paid wrestlers while they were out due to injury which didn't come into common practice until recently. When business was bad however, he got desperate going as far as having his son tell the boys that someone had robbed the ticket office of that nights gate. However, he never groomed a successor so when he stopped drawing crowds, there was no one to fall back on. He was one of professional wrestling's biggest box office attractions and he is seen as a pioneer of "" which became a major part of professional wrestling in the 1990s.  He also trained other popular wrestlers from Michigan such as , , , and .
On , , The Sheik was inducted into the  by his nephew  and former trainee .
'''Finishing and signature moves'''
'''Managers'''