<!-- Deleted image removed:  breaking down into tears after giving his eulogy]] -->
The '''death and state funeral of Pierre Trudeau''' took place in September 2000.  was the 15th , serving from 1968 to 1984, with a brief interruption in 1979–1980. Trudeau died on , . His casket, which was draped in the  throughout its journey,  on  from  to , and the following day at . On , a  was held at  in Montreal.
Trudeau died on  at 3:00 p.m. at his home in Montreal with his surviving sons,  and , and his former wife,  at his side. He suffered from  and . 
s on the , across Canada, and around the world were ordered flown at half-staff until sunset the day of the funeral. People started to arrive at Trudeau's home and set up a makeshift memorial there.  There were tributes from world leaders, including  .
The  on , which marks Canada's centennial, became the place to mark Trudeau's death. People came with messages of condolence and tribute to Trudeau. Most of them brought roses, Trudeau's symbol. The  paid her tributes to her former prime minister, and in the , Canada's political leaders paid tribute, beginning with Prime Minister , who, at the time of Trudeau's death, was on his way to Jamaica and immediately returned to Ottawa.  ,  leader  (a former prime minister),  leader , and  leader  followed, as did  . s paid tribute to Trudeau and would continue to do so in different ways during the days ahead. Many of them, including Chrétien, on this sitting, wore roses to pay tribute.
After the tributes were paid, the House of Commons adjourned out of respect.
On , the state funeral events began. Trudeau's body was flown to Ottawa on a  jet. On arrival, it was removed from the plane, driven by hearse in a simple procession through the nation's capital, and onto .
As his casket arrived on the hill, the Peace Tower bell tolled 81 times, one for each year of Trudeau's life (Trudeau was 80 when he died, but the bell tolled 81 times because he died three weeks short of his 81st birthday). 
Trudeau was carried by an honour guard from the  into the Hall of Honour to . His family spent about 15 minutes alone at the casket and out of sight of the cameras. Then Governor General  and her husband, , and Prime Minister Jean Chrétien and his wife, , paid their respects.
Then it was the turn of the dignitaries, which included , 's, and the diplomatic corps, to pay their respects to Trudeau. They would do this during the next hour.
After the dignitaries paid their respects, the doors of Parliament Hill were open to those who were outside when the hearse containing Trudeau's body arrived on the hill. The public came in a steady stream to pay their respects to the former prime minister in the Hall of Honour. At florists, people stopped to buy roses to place on the Centennial Flame. At one point, Trudeau's ex-wife, Margaret, paid a visit to the Hall of Honour.  
In all, about 60,000 people paid their respects over 2 days while Trudeau lay in state. Very long line ups formed in front of Parliament, some people waiting up to 7 hours and until 4 a.m. to get to the casket.
The final tributes in Ottawa happened on . The prime minister and other dignitaries paid their final respects. A  was fired when Trudeau's body was brought out. At the same time, the Canadian Forces Central Band played the .
In the cortege were the Trudeau sons, the prime minister and his wife, and close friends. The band played "" as the cortege began the journey off the hill.
Crowds lined the route of the cortege as it made its way to the Ottawa train station, where the coffin was placed aboard a  train that would take it from Ottawa to Montreal. 
The rails that had brought Trudeau to Ottawa 35 years earlier to elected office, now served to take him home. Prime Minister Chretien and his wife watched a special  passenger train as it departed the  with Trudeau's casket placed in the lower lounge of the observation car ''Yoho Park''. Many people in the crowd applauded. 
Trudeau's sons asked that the train be slowed along its route through eastern Ontario so that the many crowds along the tracks could pay their respects to the former Prime Minister whose cortege passed through the many rural towns and farmlands along the way.
On arrival in Montreal, the casket was taken to City Hall where crowds were waiting so that they could pay their respects to Trudeau as he  at City Hall. In all, about 15,000 paid their respects in Montreal.
The official State Funeral was held at 's  on , .
The events of the day began at City Hall, when Trudeau's casket was taken out and driven by hearse to the Basilica. Trudeau's family paid their respects in City Hall before the casket was removed from there by a  honour guard. As it was driven, 10 RCMP officers, 5 on each side, marched beside the hearse. As the hearse made its way to the cathedral, people along the route applauded, waved Canadian flags, as Trudeau made a final journey through his native Montreal.
<!-- Deleted image removed:  -->
About 3,000 people gathered at the basilica for the service, including His Royal Highness  (representing his mother, the , ), Governor General Adrienne Clarkson and her husband, John Ralston Saul, Prime Minister Jean Chrétien and his wife, , and other Canadian leaders, one of them, , and his wife, . MPs, s, past and present, provincial premiers, two other former prime ministers and their spouses ( and  , and  and ;  was overseas and was not in attendance), and members of the general public also attended. Foreign dignitaries who were present included Cuban President , former   and his wife , and the , who were also among the pallbearers, together with the poet and songwriter  and Trudeau's Cabinet colleague Marc Lalonde, all of them friends of Trudeau. Some members of the public also congregated outside the basilica and watched the funeral on giant screens. Before going into the basilica, some of the dignitaries, including Clarkson and Chrétien, gave their thoughts about Trudeau.
As the casket entered the basilica, the choir sang 's "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring." Then, the archbishop of Montreal, , who presided over the service, gave the invocation. Sacha Trudeau gave a reading. 's "Ave Maria" was then sung.
After the readings came the eulogies. Delivering the eulogies were two family friends, Roy Heenan and former senator , and  [http://archives.cbc.ca/IDC-1-69-307-1620-21/unforgettable_moments/life_society/justin_trudeau_eulogy]. Heenan gave in English, Hébert gave in French, and Trudeau gave in both English and French. The entire congregation applauded when Trudeau concluded his eulogy. He then broke down into tears on his father's casket.
After the service, which concluded with the singing of the national anthem both inside and outside, as the casket was brought out of the basilica and placed in the hearse for the ride to the St-Remi-de-Napierville Cemetery, for burial in the family plot. Just the family witnessed the burial. They requested that the service be private.
Many regard Justin Trudeau's eulogy as the most moving part of those six days, although  pointed out that the opening quotation from the funeral oration in ''Julius Caesar'' was inapt. At sunset, the flag on the Peace Tower was raised back to the top.{{Fact|date=June 2007}}
The effects of the death of Pierre Trudeau on the Canadian team at the  and the Canadian broadcasting of the Games, were as follows:
The overwhelming reaction to Trudeau's death was on the minds of many Canadian newspaper editors and it made Trudeau "" in the year 2000. It was the 10th time he received the honour by the Canadian news agency,  (CP), surpassing his predecessor, .
Like their father after he was named "Newsmaker of the 20th Century" a year earlier, the Trudeau sons declined to give interviews with the CP, but they said that they were "very honoured" by the choice.