	
'''William Cullen''' (  –  ) was a   and .
Cullen was born in , . He studied at , then, in , began a General Studies arts course at the . He began his medical training as apprentice to John Paisley, a  apothecary , then spent  as surgeon on a merchant vessel trading between  and the . After two years as assistant apothecary to Mr Murray of Henrietta Street, London, he returned to Scotland in  to establish himself in general medical practice in the parish of , Lanarkshire. From 1734 to 1736 he studied  at the , where he became interested in chemistry, and was one of the founders of the . 
In 1736 he began medical practise in Hamilton, where he rapidly acquired a high reputation. He also continued his study of the s, especially of . From 1737 to 1740  was his resident pupil, and at one time they proposed to enter into partnership. In 1740 Cullen was awarded the degree of  from . In 1741, he married and started his family. He became ordinary medical attendant to James Douglas, 5th  (1703-43), his family, and his livestock. In 1744, following the Duke's death, the Cullens moved to Glasgow.
After university (in ), he was awarded Britain's first independent lectureship in Chemistry and was elected President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow. In  he was appointed , but continued to also lecture on chemistry.
In Glasgow he gave extramural lectures, for the University, on physiology, botany, materia medica, and chemistry. His great abilities, enthusiasm, and use of practical demonstrations for instruction, made him a successful and highly popular teacher, attracting large classes. At the same time he also practised physic. In 1747 he was appointed to a lectureship in chemistry. Cullen was a diligent, but unoriginal, investigator and experimenter. However, he encouraged original research among his pupils, one of whom was .
In 1755 he was enticed by  to become Professor of Chemistry and Medicine at the . 
It was in Edinburgh, in 1756, that he gave the first documented public demonstration of artificial <ref>William Cullen, ''Of the Cold Produced by Evaporating Fluids and of Some Other Means of Producing Cold,'' '''in''' Essays and Observations Physical and Literary Read Before a Society in Edinburgh and Published by Them, II, (Edinburgh 1756)</ref>. Cullen used a pump to create a partial  over a container of , which then , absorbing  from the surroundings. This created a small amount of ice, but the process found no commercial application.
From 1757 he delivered lectures on  in the . 
On the death of  in 1760, Cullen at the request of the students undertook to finish his course of lectures on ''materia medica''; he delivered an entirely new course, notes of which were published in an unauthorized edition in 1771, but which he re-wrote and issued as ''A Treatise on Materia Medica'' in 1789.
On the death of , the professor of the institutes of medicine, Cullen accepted the chair, at the same time resigning that of chemistry. In the same year he had been an unsuccessful candidate for the professorship of the practice of physic (medicine), but subsequently an arrangement was made between him and , the successful candidate, by which they both agreed to deliver alternate courses on the theory and practice of medicine. This arrangement continued until the sudden death of Gregory in 1773. Cullen was then appointed sole professor of the practice of physic, and he continued in this office until a few months before his death. He died on , .
Cullen's eldest son Robert became a Scottish judge in 1796 under the title of Lord Cullen later Baron Cullen<ref>[http://www.npg.org.uk/live/search/portrait.asp?search=as&grp=1095%3BScottish+sitters+and+artists&lDate=&LinkID=mp55787&rNo=0&role=sit NPG D2239; Robert Cullen, Baron Cullen<!-- Bot generated title -->]</ref>, and was known for his powers of .
His chief works were ''First Lines of the Practice of Physic''; ''Institutions of Medicine'' (1710): and ''Synopsis Nosologiae Methodicae'' (1785), which contained his classification of diseases into four great classes (1) ''Pyrexiae'', or  diseases, as  fever; (2) '''', or nervous diseases, as ; (3) ''Cachexiae'', or diseases resulting from bad habit of body, as ; and (4) ''Locales'', or local diseases, as .
<references />