'''Jacob Netsvetov''', the "Enlightener of ," was a native of the  who became a  of the  and continued the missionary work of St.  among his and other Alaskan people. His  is celebrated on the day of his death, . 
Father Jacob was born in  on , part of the Aleutian Island chain in Alaska. His father, Yegor Vasil'evich Netsvetov, was Russian from , , and his mother, Maria Alekseevna, was an  from Atka Island. Jacob was the eldest of four children who survived infancy. The others were Osip (Joseph), Elena, and Antony. Although not well off, Yegor and Maria did all they could to provide for their children and prepare them to live their lives. Osip and Antony was able to study at the St. Petersburg Naval Academy and were able to become a naval officer and ship builder, respectively. Elena married a respected clerk with the . Jacob chose a life with the Church and enrolled in the Irkutsk Theological .
On , 1825, Jacob was d a sub-deacon. He married Anna Simeonovna, a Russian woman perhaps of a Creole background as was he, and then in 1826 he graduated from the seminary with certificates in history and theology. With graduation he was ordained a  on , 1826 and assigned to the Holy Trinity-St. Peter Church in . Two years later,  Michael ordained Jacob to the holy hood on , 1828. Archbishop Michael had earlier ordained John Veniaminov (St. Innocent) to the priesthood. With his elevation to the priesthood, Father Jacob began to yearn to return to his native Alaska to preach the Word of God.
Upon departing, Archbishop Michael gave Father Jacob two , one for use in the new church that Father Jacob planned to build on Atka, and the other for use in Father Jacob's missionary travels. After a , Father Jacob and his party set off for Alaska on , . The travelers included Father Jacob, Anna his wife, and his father Yegor who had been tonsured reader for the new Atka Church. This journey, which was always hard, took over year to complete, which was completed on , 1829.
Father Jacob's new  was a challenge. The Atka "parish" covered most of the islands and land surrounding the : , , , , and . But, he was to meet the challenge as clothed in his , he actively pursued his sacred ministry. To his parishioners, his love for God and them was evident in everything he did as he made his appearances while enduring the harsh weather, illness, hunger, and exhaustion. For him life was Christ. Being  and bi-cultural, Father Jacob was uniquely able to care for the souls of his community.
Since St. Nicholas Church was not yet available, Father Jacob built a large tent in which to hold his services, and after the church was completed he took the tent with him on his  travels. By the end of 1829, six months after arriving at Akta Father Jacob had recorded 16 s, 442 s, 53 s, and eight funerals.
With the completion of the church on Atka, Father Jacob turned to education of the children, teaching them to read and write both Russian and . Initially the Russian-American Company helped support the school, but in 1841 the school was re-organized as a parish school. Many of his students would prove to be distinguished Aleut leaders. While living in the north areas was difficult, Father Jacob was active in the intellectual life as well; in addition to his own subsistence needs, he was active in collecting and preparing fish and marine animal specimens for the museums in Moscow and St. Petersburg. He corresponded with St Innocent on linguistics and translation matters. He worked on an adequate Unangan-Aleut alphabet and translations of the Holy Scriptures and other church publications. In addition to praises from St. Innocent he began to receive awards for his services. In time he was elevated to  and received the .
Father Jacob's life was not without its personal sufferings. 1836 and 1837 were to bring successively the death of his beloved wife Anna in March 1836, the destruction by fire of his home in July 1836, and the death of his father, Yegor, in 1837. After considering the message of these misfortunes, he petitioned his bishop to return to Irkutsk so that he could enter a  life. A year later he request was granted contingent on the arrival of his replacement. But none came. Soon  Innocent arrived and invited Father Jacob to accompany him on a trip to . During the voyage Bishop Innocent seemed to have accomplished three things with Father Jacob: with the healing salve of the  provided words of comfort, dissuaded Father Jacob from entering a , and revealed to the saintly priest the Savior's true plan for his life that was for him to preach  to those deep in the Alaskan interior. 
On , 1844, St. Innocent appointed him head of the new Kvikhpak Mission to bring the light of Christ to the people along the . With two young Creole assistants, Innokentii Shayashnikov and Konstantin Lukin, and his nephew Vasili Netsvetov, Father Jacob established his headquarters in the  Eskimo village of Ikogmiute. From there, now known as Russian Mission, he traveled to the settlements for hundreds of miles along the Yukon and s, visiting the inhabitants of settlements along the way. For the next twenty years he learned new languages, met new people and cultures, invented another alphabet, and built more churches and communities. At the invitation of the native leaders he traveled as far as the  baptizing hundreds from many, and often formerly hostile, tribes. He continued even as his health deteriorated.
Yet the devil's presence came to stir up spurious and slanderous charges against him in 1863. To clear the air his Bishop Peter called him to  where he was cleared of all the charges. As his health worsened he remained in Sitka serving at the  chapel until his death on , . He was 60 years old.
During his last missionary travels in the Kuskokwim/Yukon delta region he is remembered for baptizing 1,320 people and for distinguishing himself as the evangelizer of the Yup'k Eskimo and  peoples.