'''Herschel Grammar School''' is a selective     and  in , . Situated on Northampton Avenue, the present headteacher is Mr. Julian King-Harris. The school has around 900 pupils, 250 of whom are in the 
The school was established in town centre buildings formerly occupied by  in William Street (a site now occupied by the Slough  of ) in about 1952. In 1958, the school moved to a purpose-built site on Northampton Avenue, occupying land that had (before the ) been used as 'Timbertown', an area of hastily constructed temporary houses.<ref>pp 75, 82, ''The Changing Face of Slough'', Slough Museum, Breedon Books, 2003</ref> The school has remained at Northampton Avenue, although for the 1988/89 academic year it temporarily moved to the site of the former Orchard  School while the permanent buildings were refurbished after damage to the roof in the storms of 1987.<ref>pp 82, ''The Changing Face of Slough'', Slough Museum, Breedon Books, Derby 2003</ref>.
Within its present buildings, the school has had a number of different names and forms, including:
In 2004, the school completed its new sports centre, which now serves as ''[http://www.sloughleisure.com/index.php?id=534| Herschel Sports]'' to the public when out of school hours. The new sports complex includes a full-size astro-turf football, hockey pitch, four full-size tennis courts, six full-size indoor badminton courts, one full-size indoor basketball court, a dance studio and changing facilities with lockers.
At Herschel we work together to:
provide a stimulating and exciting learning environment for all 
promote life long learning 
recognise and value the achievement of each individual 
develop responsibility, tolerance and consideration for others 
strengthen the bond between school, home and the community 
build partnerships with industry and commerce 
Herschel Grammar School is committed to providing a friendly atmosphere where pupils can fulfil their potential, grow in confidence and above all, be happy.
We achieve this by employing excellent teachers who will provide support to pupils in both their academic and social development. We encourage pupils to develop and express their opinions in a constructive and positive manner.
We are proud of our high academic achievements and we are equally proud of the range of extra curricular activities that we are able to offer pupils.
In recent years the school has been the subject of much refurbishment. We pride ourselves on providing pupils with a modern, clean, well resourced school.
As a Technology College we will ensure that our information and communications technology is regularly updated so that pupils are well prepared for the rapidly advancing systems that they will come across in the world of work.
Julian King-Harris, M.A.
Headteacher
The school has a sixth form of about 250 pupils, both from the lower school and pupils who have moved from other schools. The sixth form is a part of the .  The pupils in the sixth form have a common room that is strictly used for studying only inside lesson time due to the sixth form's strict study rules. In September  a silent study room was built inside the sixth form block.
The school maintains a prefect system. Twelve prefects including a ''Head Boy'' & ''Head Girl'' are chosen in the latter part of Year 12. The current Head Boy is Tom Fludgate and the Head Girl is Jenny Nicol. The prefects occupy their posts until the end of Year 13.
Herschel Grammar School is the founding member-school of the ''Herschel Consortium'' - a co-operation of the sixth forms of Herschel Grammar School, the , and , all of which are within the same district of Slough.
The 'Herschel Consortium' has been criticised for having a flaw - Baylis Court is an all girls school, and while Herschel and Westgate can accept all Baylis students into their Sixth form, Baylis only accept female students from the other schools. Some have argued that this defeats the purpose of the consortium - and that, for instance, Herschel allowing only their female students to study Art and Performing Arts at Baylis, is breaching the .
Unfortunately, this has led to several pupils (both male, and female with male friends), choosing to study art A level at other establishments, such as , and .
<references />