'''Valley Heights''' railway station is a regional railway station on the  of the  intercity network, serving the suburb of  in the Lower  in , . 
The station has an  and is served by one train each way per hour in off-peak, with additional services during peak hours. A railway  and depot is now registered by the NSW Heritage Office and is maintained as the .
The station opened in 1875 and was once a major rail centre during steam era.<ref>{{cite web | url=http://www.nswrail.net/lines/show.php?name=NSW:main_west| title=Main West Line | publisher=Nswrail.net}}</ref> The station was originally a point where locomotives were added onto intercity trains due to the steep railway gradients in the Blue Mountains.
The locomotive depot was constructed in 1913 when the duplication of the line between Glenbrook and Emu Plains was completed through the Blue Mountains. The depot was available for service on the 21st December 1913, but was not officially opened till 31st January 1914. With the  and regrading of the line, the heavy grades below Valley Heights had been eliminated, the  from  to Valley Heights being 1 in 60 (1.6%).
The depot at Valley Heights consisted of a locomotive yard, a 10 bay , 18 metre (60ft) , an elevated , and water tanks and columns. It provided  for trains travelling to  and beyond. Pilot engines were placed in the lead of the trains' "through" engine over a given section of track. The engines at Valley Heights not only piloted over the longest distance in NSW, but also had the envious distinction of having to operate over the longest continual and most steeply graded mainline in Australasia. The section from Valley Heights to Katoomba, a distance of 20 miles 16 chains (32.7 km) has a ruling grade of in 33 (3.3%), rose a total of 2,200 ft (670 m), the s varying from 1 in 60 (1.6%) to the steepest of 1 in 31 (3.2%).
During the steam era the depot had a continual allotment of eight goods engines and generally two passenger engines. During the peak of the steam era an average of 30 trains during any 24 hour period required piloting from Valley Heights to Katoomba.
The western line was  (1500 volts DC) to Valley Heights on 23rd October 1956. From 2nd February 1957  from Valley Heights were replaced by the  s which assisted trains from Valley Heights to Katoomba. From that train all steam hauled trains, both freight and passenger were electrically assisted to Katoomba, until complete electrification saw steam removed from the scene. 
The depot in latter years was basically a very efficient freight wagon and electric locomotive repair workshop, the electric engines receiving minor repairs and complete overhauls at the depot. A variety of freight wagons were also repaired at the depot. The demise of Valley Heights depot began when the  electric locomotives were introduced in 1979 and through working of freight trains commenced. The demise was accelerated with the introduction of the  locomotives in early 1983. From the mid 1980's the number of trains requiring piloting from Valley Heights had been reduced to a handful each day, the number of locomotives required for this duty being reduced to only 3, sometimes as few as 2 being necessary.
With the announcement of the closure of Valley Heights depot by the  in October 1988, the depot was gradually closed and equipment removed. One electric locomotive being available for any pilot work on offer. The end occurring during the last week of January 1989 when electric locomotive 4627 had the distinction operating the last train to be piloted from Valley Heights to Katoomba.
 
'''Platform 1:'''
'''Platform 2:'''
 runs one route via Valley Heights railway station:
<references/>