'''Firebug''' is the name of 2  supervillains.
Firebug first appeared in '''' #318 (December 1979). '''Joe Rigger''' was a soldier and demolitions expert who returned to  when his family had been killed in three separate building-related accidents. His sanity slipping, Rigger vowed that those buildings would not kill again. Using his military training and a costume containing tanks of napalm, he became the Firebug and set out to burn all three buildings to the ground. He was defeated by the  atop the towering Gotham State Building, and believed dead after his tank exploded. Firebug reappeared some time later, taking on a mission from the  to invade 's HQ, but was disarmed and defeated by the Hotline members. Still later, Firebug escaped Blackgate Prison and applied for membership in 's gang, but was beaten by his rival arsonist, . He subsequently attempted to prove he was a better arsonist, and again appeared to be killed by his own inferno.
A new Firebug debuted in  #3. At first, his identity was a mystery, and he was wanted in the murder of a teenage girl, who was killed after a baby-sitting job. Eventually, the Gotham police deduced that the culprit was '''Harlan Combs''', the father of the child she was sitting, and by all accounts a perfectly normal man. Combs had purchased the Firebug costume and armor from Rigger. He was injured fleeing the police and was quickly arrested.
An unnamed character using the name Firebug debuted in '' - Urban Renewel'' #1 (February 2005). He had won the name and costume from an Internet auction. After taking on the Firebug name, he enters the costume business. He later appeared in a flashback revealing that he teamed up with  but was defeated by the team of Batman and  prior to Batman leaving Gotham City for a year.
Firebug was the second-to-last boss, preceding , in the 's . He and  are both cybernetically-enhanced supervillains working as thugs-for-hire for the Joker. He could run at high speeds, punch rapidly, and throw giant fireballs from his hands. He is more similar to  in concept.