Founded in 1986, Genesys provides multimedia collaboration and conferencing services to thousands of organizations worldwide. The company’s primary product, Genesys Meeting Center, is a unified collaboration solution delivered as "".
The company has offices in 24+ countries across North America, Europe and Asia Pacific where it offers local support to its primariy focus, the Fortune 1000 customer segment. Genesys Conferencing is publicly traded on Euronext Eurolist C in France (FR0004270270). Additional information is available at http://www.genesys.com
Its products include Genesys Meeting Center - with more than 90% of the business, Genesys Event Services and Genesys Video Services.
Genesys Conferencing was created in 1986, in  (France). 
In 1988, the company launched the world’s first fully automated audio conferencing service. 
In 1992, Genesys Conferencing started its European expansion, followed by the penetration of the Asia-Pacific and North American markets in 1997 and 1998 respectively. Today, the company has a presence in 24 countries throughout the world, and continues to enter new markets.
In 2001, the company launched the industry’s first integrated audio, web and video conferencing service: Genesys Meeting Center. At the same time, the company doubled its size and further established its North American presence through the acquisitions of Vialog Corporation and Astound.
In 2006, Genesys Conferencing introduced the fourth generation of Genesys Meeting Center with a new User Interface integrating both traditional telephony and . Also introducing an  client for ubiquitious participant access.
On , , West Corporation and Genesys announced that West will seek to acquire Genesys and combine it with InterCall, Inc., a West subsidiary.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://money.cnn.com/news/newsfeeds/articles/marketwire/0363348.htm |title=Friendly Tender Offer By West Corporation For Genesys Conferencing date=2008-02-19 |accessdate=2008-02-20}}</ref>
On May 23rd, 2008  West Corporation closed the acquisition of Genesys Conferencing.
'''Genesys Meeting Center''' is a   and collaboration service, combining ,  and  voice access with video and . Moderators can deliver presentations, share documents or applications in real time or they can record their meetings for playback later. 
'''Genesys Event Service''' is an all-inclusive integrated  conferencing offering, combining Web, audio, presentation options, participant registration and interaction. This service is predominantly used for larger meetings and typically includes operator assistance.
'''Genesys Video Services''' is designed to manage all aspects of a video conference, from room booking and dispatch of attendee invitations to conference monitoring and reporting, entirely from the desktop.
'''Board of Directors'''
Current members of the Board of Directors of Genesys Conferencing are: François Legros, Bo Dimert, Timothy Samples, David Detert, Patrick S Jones and Frédéric Spagnou.
'''Management Committee'''
<references/>