'''Ellen Schreiber''' is a US  author. She was an  and a stand-up  before becoming an . She studied Shakespearean theatre at the  in London, and comedy at the Second City of Chicago, which is where she lived for five years. As a novelist she has had several works published in Europe and America. Her brother, , is also an author. He helped her start her writing career. The '''Vampire Kisses''' series was her real break. The "VK" series stars Raven, a goth girl who has wanted to be a vampire since she was little. Ellen says that "Raven is a blast to write for, because when I'm writing about her rebellious exploits, I feel the excitement of the rebellion too."
'''Johnny Lightning'''
Is the story of Chloe, a groovy girl who has found her soulmate in childhood friend, Danny Roth. But true love is disrupted when the distracting rock star, Johnny Lightning comes into Chloe’s life, forcing her to choose between her soulmate and starmate. 
'''Teenage Mermaid'''
Spencer almost drowns in a surfing accident when a sparkling, golden girl saves him with kiss of life before she suddenly disappears. Where did the dream girl come from, and will she return?
Lilly rescues a boy from nearly drowning and dangerously steps out of her own watery world. Curious to explore this forbidden land, she's gotta find her handsome Earthdude.
A silver heart locket is their only clue.
'''Comedy Girl'''
Ladies and gentleman, heeeere’s… Trixie! In Ellen Schreiber’s third novel Comedy Girl, high school student Trixie Shapiro goes from back-up gal to front row diva while discovering success and confidence as a stand-up comedienne.
'''Vampire Kisses'''
In her small town dubbed "Dullsville," sixteen-year-old Raven--a vampire-crazed, goth-girl-is an outcast. But not for long...
The intriguing and rumored-to-be haunted mansion on top of Benson Hill has stood vacant and boarded-up for years. That is, until its mysteriously strange new occupants move in. Who are these creepy people--especially the handsome, dark and elusive Alexander Sterling? Or rather, what are they? Could the town prattle actually ring true? Are they vampires? Raven, who secretly covets a vampire kiss, both at risk of her own mortality and Alexander's loving trust, is dying to uncover the truth.
'''Vampire Kisses II: Kissing Coffins'''
Life in “Dullsville” has become far from dull for goth-girl Raven. After meeting Alexander Sterling—a night-thriving, shadowy dream guy—her dark world suddenly has a bright glow. But as in her favorite movie, Kissing Coffins, Raven knows that love always has its complications. And Alexander has a secret; a secret she must quietly guard. When he mysteriously disappears, Raven finds herself on a dangerous chase to find him. What she encounters is more terrifying than she could have imagined—including a life-transforming decision she may not be ready to sink her teeth into.
Ellen Schreiber presents a chilling and suspenseful sequel to her popular tale of an unusual teen romance, Vampire Kisses.
'''Vampire Kisses III: Vampireville'''
For goth-girl Raven, dating her dream boyfriend is complicated, especially as Alexander's secret means that they can only see each other at night. And now the pair must be extra wary in the dark with Alexander's arch-rival Jagger appearing around town. As if Jagger isn't enough cause for worry, Luna, his strikingly pale sister has also surfaced, and seems to have her sights set on Raven's own longtime nemesis, Trevor. Together, Raven and Alexander must begin a terrifying search for Jagger and Luna's hideout to drive them away. That is, if it's not already too late to save Dullsville from permanently becoming Vampireville.
'''Vampire Kisses IV: Dance with a Vampire''' 
There’s a new vampire in town.
Valentine’s appearance may even pose further threats. Could he somehow know Raven’s innermost feelings about becoming immortal for her true love, Alexander?
The far-from-ordinary romance of these two teen outsiders takes another surprise-filled spin in the fourth book of Ellen Schreiber’s applauded Vampire Kisses series.
'''Vampire Kisses V: The Coffin Club'''
Its tough for love-struck Raven to imagine what's keeping her nocturnal boyfriend from returning to Dullsville. So there's only one thing to do find Alexander. Along the way, Raven can't resist the spot where she feels most at home, The Coffin Club. But when she stumbles upon a secret door in the club, she descends into a dim catacomb to a hidden hang-out where the house-drink happens to be Type A or B. Drawn to one of its shadowy members, Raven suspects she's in over her head. But exploring the covert club is too tempting, even after coming face-to-face with Alexanders trouble-stirring enemy.
'''Volume I, Blood Relatives'''
This book is the first volume in a series of  that are based on the Vampire Kisses world. It is published by  and is illustrated by .
The absolute last thing Goth girl Raven and her vampire boyfriend Alexander need is another hitch in their night-time only romance—but dark trouble hovers on the horizon when Raven and Alexander discover four freshly dug graves filled with empty coffins. When a crew of dodgy vampires takes up residence in Dullsville’s lonely graveyard, Alexander finds this motley bunch is led by his very own blood-sucking cousin, Claude Sterling. Claude and his creepy crew can only spell out more problems for the pair, especially when Raven finds them in daylight attending Dullsville Highschool! What could Claude and his invaders be doing—or searching for—in Dullsville?
'''Volume II, Blood Relatives'''
This book is the second volume in a series of  that are based on the Vampire Kisses world. It is published by  and is illustrated by .
Who says dating a vampire is easy? Raven’s nocturnal romance with her immortal love Alexander is definitely dicey, but even more so with Alexander’s meddling half-vamp cousin in town. Claude and his sketchy gang are on the hunt for a stash of blood-filled vials that can turn them into pure vampires. With an old family feud casting a shadow on the search, they’ll do anything to get their hands on the vials. Raven and Alexander must swiftly mastermind a plan to outwit them, but will the very lure of the vials create more risk for Raven than she could ever imagine?