'''Grave Digger''' is a fictional character from the comic '''', a distinct alter-ego caused by the curse which created .
When Brianna Diggers was originally created, the curse which  and  had been attempting to avoid was imbedded in her as well. While its bad-luck magic had no effect on Brianna, the curse's desire to kill Gina and Brittany caused the creation of a distinct alter-ego, calling herself Grave Digger. Grave Digger attempted to kill Gina and Brittany, but was foiled by Gina and then her influence on Brianna's mind apparently destroyed by the Diggers sisters' father,  .
However, while this act could have destroyed Grave Digger, she hid herself deep within the recesses of Brianna's subconscious where she would be undetectable even by Brianna herself, let alone anyone who would probe Brianna's mind. Grave Digger hid there for years, until an accident with  knocked Brianna unconscious. Finding this extremely unique, and Brianna's current hybrid form rather powerful in magic, Grave Digger assumed control of their shared body and then(going along with Sheila's fears that she'd accidentally caused Brianna to have ) pretending to be Brianna in order to get back to Brianna's sisters, so she could kill them.
Fortunately, 's ESP allowed her to reveal the truth and Grave Digger was chased back into Brianna's subconscious, still lurking where Genn couldn't reach it without possibly invading private areas of Brianna's mind as well. As several mages contended about what to do about Brianna's situation, Grave Digger taunted Brianna inside their shared subconscious, showing her how at this level she was still in the shadow of her sisters, and that the only way to be free of the shadow and free to live her own life was to end theirs.
However, Grave Digger was then surprised when a combination of magical spells actually split her and Brianna into separate bodies. Grave Digger, not understanding what they meant to do but knowing they could destroy her if they destroyed her body, tried to flee before realizing that for some reason the mages couldn't attempt to harm her. Using this knowledge, she began to attack them, only to be intercepted by Brianna. The two did battle, resulting in a seeming stalemate until Grave Digger convinced Brianna's Peebee ammunition to turn on her.
Finding what she thought to be Brianna's injured form, Grave Digger was surprised by Genn, who easily penetrated her mind, now that she had nothing to worry about Brianna's privacy. Inside, the truth became obvious: Grave Digger wasn't the curse as had been earlier suspected. Rather, she was a segment of Brianna's subconscious, primarily her , which intensely feared Gina and Brittany's threat to Brianna's identity. Showing Grave Digger that the 'shadows' she feared were in fact her own fears that she'd created, Genn led Grave Digger back to where she belonged in Brianna's subconscious, finally ending its negative effect on her personality.