image=<!-- Deleted image removed:  -->
'''Johnny Sorrow''' is a   and a recurring  foe. He first appeared in ''Secret Origins of Super-Villains 80-Page Giant'' # 1 (Dec 1999), though he was first mentioned in ''Starman'' v.2 #8 in 1995.
Johnny was a silent film actor, but after being forced into retirement by the then-new "," he turned to a life of crime. He would eventually come into possession of a "Subspace Prototype", that enabled him to become intangible. During a fight with the ,  destroyed the Subspace Prototype, which threw Johnny into another dimension. 
In this "fractional dimension," one of the "Subtle Realms", Sorrow's body was hideously altered. There he found beings that had apparently been banished there when  finished creating the universe. They were led by a large creature called the King of Tears. These entities gave Johnny a new mask that would contain his new form and allow him to manifest in the regular world. Johnny Sorrow now appears to be an invisible man in a suit, with an expressionless mask floating where his face should be. He was then sent back so that he could bring the King of Tears out into the world.
Johnny's first stop was to see his wife. Unaware of how much he had changed, he removed his mask and accidentally killed his wife. Later, he kidnapped Sandy and successfully opened a gateway for the King of Tears, but was foiled by the  and the King of Tears was consumed by the . The Spectre could not destroy the King, but transformed its essence into tears, which  safeguarded in his lab for decades.
Sorrow would return years later with a new incarnation of the  to again attempt to bring out the King of Tears. He succeeded, but both he and the King were seemingly killed when  dragged both of them into the , drawing on the speed of  to gain the power necessary to reach that speed. 
Later, Sorrow would team up with  in a plot against the  and the  involving an attack on the Rock of Eternity. Again he was defeated and this time captured.
Most recently, Sorrow was rescued from another dimension by a new Injustice Society after he had saved the Wizard from the JLA and then forced him into service. It is unknown how Sorrow ended up in this other dimension. After returning, he reclaimed leadership of the group from the . Their current plans are unknown, but Sorrow has stated that it involves everyone on the team (although the  is being allowed to pursue his own plans for the time being). Sorrow still has a burning hatred of Sandy, now known as , whom he blames for his transformation and unhappiness.
In , Captain Marvel, on the brink of sanity, mentioned that Johnny Sorrow tried attacking the Rock of Eternity.
Johnny Sorrow's face is so hideous that people who view it die, though there are exceptions to the rule:
Sorrow is intangible, but can become solid and must in order to remove his mask. Once solid, he cannot become intangible again until the mask is replaced.  While tangible, he can be hurt by physical force as well as matter manipulation.  He also once proved vulnerable to a recorded image of his own face, which briefly solidified and paralyzed him.
He has also shown the ability to teleport himself and others as well as levitate. It seems Sorrow has some sort of power to manipulate energy since he was able to bend energy attacks coming at him together causing an explosion.