'''Poway High School''' (PHS) is a public, comprehensive  located in the city of , . Established in 1961, it serves ninth through twelfth grade students from the communities of Poway and . The school mascot is the . Poway is the oldest high school in the .
Poway High School is accredited by the . First granted in 1965, the current accreditation is valid through 2008. Poway High School is both a  winner (1999) and a  (1990/91).
The campus is in northern , approximately 35 miles northeast of downtown . The campus covers 59  (238,765&nbsp;).
Poway's athletic teams, the Titans, compete in the  and the  (CIF) San Diego Section. 
The school fields teams in 19 sports: , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .
The wrestling program has won three state championships, 57 different CIF division awards, and numerous Palomar League awards.  
The 2007 football team finished the season 12-0 and were the CIF Division I champions. 
The 2007-2008 Boys Soccer team finished with a record of 23-2-5 and were the Palomar League and CIF Division I Champions. They were also finalists in the first anual Southern California Regional Soccer Championships.
The Girls Golf team won the 2006 CIF State Championship and the 2006 CIF San Diego Section Championship.
The PHS  is called the [http://macgyversfriend.com/emerald07/index.htm Emerald Brigade], and competes in the  (WBA) circuit, the Marching Band Open Series (WGASC) as well as the  (SCSBOA) circuit. The Emerald Brigade is accompanied by a . With over 250 members, the band is one of the largest organizations in Southern California and competes in the 6A division. The band has won several field show awards at the Arcadia Tournament of Champions including Band, Music, and General Effect Sweeps in 2005, Percussion and Visual Sweeps in 2006, and Visual Sweeps in 2007. Their recent field show music includes:
The music program consists of several bands: , , , and the top band Wind Symphony. String Ensembles include , and the . Also, Poway has a  and a [http://macgyversfriend.com/emerald06/rochambeaux.html Concert Percussion Ensemble]. The Percussion Ensemble replaced the percussion Winterline shows in 2007. All groups consistently receive Superior ratings at the El Camino and district Festival competitions.{{fact|date=December 2007}} In 2006, the Poway High School music program was designated a  by the .
Poway High School also boasts one of the most successful choral programs in Southern California, and the entire United States, under the direction of Nancy Gray.  The school has 6 choral groups, of which 3 are audition-only.  The choirs, from more novice to more advanced are:
In 2006, Poway's chamber group, the Die Lieder Singers won the annual Festival of Gold in Chicago, scoring a 94.67 on a 6-song festival set adjudicated by 3 judges.
Poway's choral music department is also known for its extremely successful musical productions every spring.  The last few shows have been:
On , , Poway junior Tyler Chase Harper came to school wearing a  with  on the front and back, upon which was written " is shameful -  1:27" and "Be ashamed, our school has embraced what God condemned." [http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/education/20040917-9999-7m17speech.html] The incident occurred one day after the , a national protest staged by high-school students against  and sponsored by several state and national  organizations. Harper was sent to the principal's office by a teacher, where he was asked to remove the tape; he refused.. He then was forced to stay in the school's office until the end of the school day.
The incident garnered a minor amount of attention in local and national media as an example of tensions in schools arising from homophobia and religious freedom. , at the time, was in the process of reforming  laws (''see ).
Backed by the , a   legal group, Harper eventually sued the district, claiming a violation of his right to . The case was eventually heard before a federal judge, but was thrown out, with the judge in the case ruling that the message was disruptive and needlessly offensive.
<!-- THE LIST IS ALPHABETIZED, DO NOT JUST ADD A NAME TO THE END OF THE LIST -->