'''Marie Teresa Ríos''', also '''Marie Teresa Ríos Versace''', (pen name '''"Tere Ríos"''') (, -, ) was the  author of a book which was the basis for the popular 1960s television sitcom, ''''.  Ríos was the mother of , the first   in Southeast Asia awarded the .
Ríos' parents immigrated from  in the early part of the 20th century and settled in the   of  where Maria Teresa Ríos was born.  She grew up in Puerto Rico and eventually returned to New York. Ríos Versace was a devout  who became interested in writing at a young age.
In the 1930s, she met and married Humbert Joseph Versace, a 1933 graduate of the  (West Point).  Together they had five children, , twins Stephen and  (former coach of the ), Michael and Trilby.  As an Army wife, she traveled to different places around the world, including , where her first child, Humbert Roque was born.
 
During , Ríos (now Ríos Versace) drove Army trucks and buses. She also served as a pilot for the . Ríos Versace wrote and edited for various newspapers around the world, including places such as , ,, and , and publications such the Armed Forces '''' and ''''. 
She also taught creative writing at the  and was on the staff of the Rhinelander Writers Conference. In 1958, she was named "Wisconsin Writer of the Year".  In 1963, Ríos Versace published her first book ''Brother Angel'' using the pen name "Tere Ríos".  She soon followed that with another book, ''An Angel Grows Up''.
 
Her eldest son, Humbert Roque Versace, followed his father's footsteps and graduated from West Point.  He was sent to the  as a military advisor with the rank of Captain.  During his second tour in Vietnam he was captured, along with two other Americans, by the .  Captain Versace was executed by his captors on , , an event which devastated her.
Unaware of the events of the tragedy which would emotionally affect her, she published her third book "The Fifteen Pelican" in 1966 and the book's dedication read as follow: ''"FOR THE ROCK (Her son's nickname) and the children and sugar people of NamCan"''.  The TV series '''', starring , was based on this book.  The popular sitcom was produced by  from 1967 until 1970.
Upon learning of their son's fate, Ríos Versace and her husband  tried to find out what they could about the circumstances surrounding his death. She went to  in the late 1960s, trying unsuccessfully to see the North Vietnamese delegation as it arrived for peace talks. Ríos Versace expressed her frustration and anguish in poems.
Ríos Versace was presented with a Special Forces patch and unit membership certificate. In 1970, a movement to award her son with the Medal of Honor failed and instead Ríos Versace and her husband were presented with their son's .  Her husband Colonel Humbert Joseph Versace died on , .
Ríos Versace returned to Puerto Rico in 1990, retiring in the town of .  In 1999, she was diagnosed with  and she returned to the United States.  She was hospitalized in . Marie Teresa Ríos Versace died on ,  and her funeral was held at the Ft. Myer Old Post Chapel.  Representatives of the Special Operations Command from Fort Bragg were present.  Her ashes were buried with her husband at  on , .
On , , President  presented Marie Teresa Ríos Versace's surviving children with the Medal of Honor which was posthumously awarded to Captain Humbert Roque Versace.