'''Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer''' (born , , in /; died , , in ) was a , ,  and state.
Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer was born as the son of the   and member of the n parliament  in Ranshofen near Braunau. His family had  roots and so they had to flee in 1938 because of the  government in .
 
During the  he got introduced to Marxist ideology and studied in ,  and  after the war. He later developed a more and more pragmatic mental attitude and changed into a social democrat. He started to work as an editor in  and until 1930 as a foreign correspondent for the social-democratic news paper ''Forward'' in . In this period he wrote his first book ''Portrait of the British Labour Party'' that became a bestseller, and he made first contact with Leopold Kohr, a young journalist and economist from . 
His book raised the awareness of the British government, who had a big influence on the . Because of that he got the chance to work as diplomat and supervisor of the League of Nations for 10 years in , beginning in 1930.
Because of the incidents in Europe he emigrated to , where he worked at the  in  as a professor. In addition he was employed as a consultant of the United States ministry for foreign affairs and supported the US government in the struggle against -Germany. There, he and his younger colleague Leopold Kohr began to criticize the National Socialist Germany through venues such as the .
Shortly after  Egon Ranshofen began to work as executive, supervisor, and diplomat for the . His book “A Great Experiment in International Administration” had a substantial influence on the developing of the UNO.
Ranshofen-Wertheimer and Kohr also lobbied for an independent Austria. That the young second republic of Austria got a member of the UNO rather fast can be attributed to the engagement of Ranshofen-Wertheimer.
Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer is buried in the cemetery of the castle Ranshofen in his family grave.
The 16th  in September 2007, with the title “s manual”, will focus on the life of Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer.
The  (ERWA) was founded by the  in Braunau am Inn in the beginning of 2007.
Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer, ''[http://www.hrb.at/bzt/victory-is-not-enough/ Victory is not enough. The strategy for a lasting peace]''. W.W. Norton & Company Publishers [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/W.w._norton], New York,1942.
Egon Ranshofen-Wertheimer, ''The International Secretariat - A Great Experiment in International Administration''. , Washington 1945