'''Shailer Park''' is a suburb of , , .
It is a popular suburb mainly comprising of middle class residential areas, the citizens of Shailer Park have the conveniences of the wide commercial sector for employment, entertainment and leisure at the neighboring suburb of .
The suburb is named after  and  who arrived with their children in the area in 1866. Like many s in the area they first grew cotton and later sugar. The Shailers were probably best known for their fruit growing and operated the first citrus orchard in southern Queensland, situated in . The land selected by Francis Shailer was situated to the north of the current . Francis was a  at the first and second s. He was also the first  of the  Board in 1880. The Shailers intermarried with other pioneering families in the district including the Dennis’ who were related to the Markwells.
Francis’ son  later farmed the area now known as . At that time it was called  and was owned by his grandfather, . Alf’s son  also farmed this property. Glen carried on the family’s tradition of involvement in local government. He was elected to the  in 1961 and served almost continuously until 1985. He was elected  in 1982 and served for one term.
Shailer Park incorporates the housing estate marketed as Kimberley Park from 1973, the name of which has been perpetuated in the local state primary school.  and s area also in the area. The  is the major shopping centre in the area and it opened August 1989.
Shailer Park was originally named as a district in 1971, then as a sub-district of Slacks Creek in 1977. It was officially named a suburb in 1991.
 has a rich and vibrant history, from the original inhabitants - Aboriginals from two major language groups: the Yugambeh and the Jaggera, to the exploration of the river by Captain Patrick Logan in 1826.
 has done much to document the history of Logan City, and also boasts the , a self-guided heritage trail along the Logan, which tells a fascinating history of river life since the early 1800s.
Council also provides services within its libraries to assist residents to discover their own family history and genealogy.