'''Lynbrook High School''' (abbreviated '''LHS''') is a ,  four-year  located in the  neighborhood of  , , . It was founded in 1965, graduating its first class in 1968. It was once ranked among the top five public comprehensive secondary schools in California. Lynbrook belongs to the .   It is  by the .
Lynbrook High School's official school colors are blue, white, and red, used respectively in order of frequency. On school T-shirts, flags, and sports uniforms, blue is almost always applied as the background, and white is used as the lettering. Valkyries skirts (worn by the Lynbrook girls' dance team) have blue, white, and red on them. 
"Go Vikings" is the school slogan, often shortened to "Go Vikes."
Lynbrook High School opened on , , with an enrollment of 1,026 students. Because  had grown very large by that time, a new school in the western San Jose area was constructed. The District Board nominated Kendall Stanger as the first principal of the school. The school was technologically advanced around the time it was built and had closed-circuit television and air conditioning. During the first year, there was no gymnasium, locker room, or swimming pool. There were sophomores and freshman attending that year. By the second school year the gymnasium, locker room, and 'Olympic sized' swimming pool were complete.  
Lynbrook High School's student body represents a diverse mix of students from a wide variety of cultural backgrounds, including first, second, or higher generation immigrants from many or most of the countries in , , and the former . The academic focus of Lynbrook's student body has helped produce a higher level of rigor than is typically found in secondary schools. The diverse cultural background of the student body has facilitated a cultural fluency in its alumni that has seldom been found in the graduates of any educational institution, secondary or otherwise.
Many of Lynbrook High School's buildings and facilities are in its original state and have not been significantly renovated. Most of Lynbrook's buildings are constructed of old brick exteriors, but the interiors usually do not appear as aged. New structures and facilities built since  include the library, swimming pool, field house, and Voyager buildings.
Lynbrook has a football field with a dirt track around it, a swimming pool, and a small baseball field. Although the baseball field and football field are in need of renovations, Lynbrook's Olympic-sized swimming pool is in excellent condition. During water polo season, Lynbrook High School's swimming pool has nine lanes and devotes about half of its area to non-lane-divided deep-water areas. The deep-water area is used mainly for  competitions. As one of the newest swimming pools among South Bay high schools, Lynbrook students take pride in their four-year-new swimming pool. 
The classroom wings are on the back (east) side of the school and are numbered from 101-615. The 100 and 200 wings are on the north side, and the 500 and 600 wings are on the south side. The nasium, , and  and  courts are situated in the southwest of Lynbrook High School's campus. The western third of the campus consists of the Stober field (a large green lawn used primarily for field hockey practice and student events) and a football field. The visual and performing arts center is the school's easternmost building. The school's mural of the Viking, which faces the main parking lot, is actually painted on the same building that houses the girl's locker rooms and the weight training room.
The rally court or quad is the hub of student life at Lynbrook and is surrounded by the cafeteria, classroom wings, auditorium, and the Associated Student Body den. The rally court is where school-wide skits are performed and occasionally, student activities will congregate within the quad. Another notable happening in the quad is "Club Day." This is a day where participating clubs in Lynbrook sell food and drinks at the quad for fundraising.
Lynbrook has a solid academic reputation. Like nearby schools  and , Lynbrook is widely known for consistently being one of the top 20 high schools in  for several years. [http://lhs.fuhsd.org/school_info/API_history.htm] Lynbrook's academic reputation has also influenced the real estate market in the surrounding neighborhood, causing home prices to rise higher than other neighborhoods in the San Jose area.
As of 2005, Lynbrook High School's base  (API) averages 895, which is similar to those of , , and . [http://yahooed.greatschools.net/modperl/achievement/ca/5499] The 2004 API ranking for Lynbrook High School is 10 out of 10, which is the best rating possible for any school, and its similar-schools API ranking is 9 out of 10. Also in 2005,  magazine rated Lynbrook as the 178th best high school in the entire .   [http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/7723397/site/newsweek/?page=2] Within California, Lynbrook is ranked as having the 14th highest API score in the state. [http://www.lhs.fuhsd.org/school_info/]
Lynbrook students consistently receive high marks on standardized s, including the  and . On the SAT I, the mean verbal score for the class of 2005 was 592/800 and the mean math score was 662/800. In the 2002-2003 SAT results, 83% of all Lynbrook students scored over 1000. Out of 837 tests by 446 students who took Advanced Placement Exams in 2005, 41% scored 5, the highest score possible, and 89% passed.  test results are also remarkably high, with most students scoring proficient or above in almost all subjects. 
Most Lynbrook High students are concerned about entering into a top university or college, like students at , , , , and . Almost all students take the . Many SAT prep schools have sprung up all over San Jose, Cupertino, and Saratoga. These SAT prep classes are taken by a large percentage of Lynbrook pupils; as a result, Lynbrook High School appears to have relatively high SAT and API scores. Many students choose to take honors and AP classes to boost their academics. Although many people view Lynbrook as highly stressful and competitive, the level of academic difficulty is entirely up to the student's choice. Not all students may choose to have academically rigorous courses and environments.
Like nearby , Lynbrook has a relatively high proportion of high student GPA's. 's above 3.5 are not uncommon. For some students, heavy emphasis is placed on honors and Advanced Placement (AP) courses. Due to their high academic success, many Lynbrook graduates have gone to several high profile colleges and universities around the country, including  institutions. More than half of all Lynbrook graduates attend the , making Lynbrook one of the university's largest feeders. Not all students attend four-year colleges, and about one-fourth attend two-year colleges. [http://lhs.fuhsd.org/school_info/LHSprofile05_06.pdf]
Lynbrook offers a total of 16 distinct sports, with sports split into two different seasons for boys and girls (such as tennis and volleyball) counted as one sport.
'''Fall''' (6 sports)
'''Winter''' (3 sports)
'''Spring''' (8 sports)
<ref>[http://www.lhs.fuhsd.org/athletics/ Lynbrook High School, San Jose, CA<!-- Bot generated title -->]</ref> Lynbrook's main rival is , along with other rivals such as  and, occasionally,  and .
Lynbrook's non-athletic teams include:
School publications include: 
<!-- Since there is no fair way of determining which clubs get to be listed this article, none of them will be. If anyone wants to find a list, they will go to the website. Any club names arbitrarily added below WILL be removed. -->
The school has many other clubs, a complete list of which is available [http://www.lynbrookasb.org/clubs here].
Lynbrook ASB (Associated Student Body) organizes student activities and is lead by both student and administrative members. A complete updated list of students can be found [http://www.lynbrookasb.org/leadership here]. As an organizer of many student games and activities around the year, ASB sets up class competitions, brunch and lunch time entertainment, and rallies.
ASB plans and organizes homecoming, which is the largest event on the school calendars. During homecoming, classes hold "skits" and compete against each other on the final day of homecoming week.
ASB cards are issued by ASB, which allow students to receive discounted prices on school merchandise, tickets, and activities. An ASB card can, as of the 2006-2007 school year, be purchased for $75, with the cost of the yearbook included in the total cost.
Lynbrook holds school dances throughout the year, usually on Friday nights. The dances begin at 7:30 P.M. and end at 10:30 P.M. School rules are in effect during the dances, and only Lynbrook students are allowed in the dances unless a guest pass is obtained. The music played may include hip-hop or jazz, depending on the formality of the dance.
There are 4 to 6 spirit weeks held throughout the school year. During these themed weeks, ASB puts on spirit games in the quad that involve students and teachers in ridiculous but entertaining games. Usually these games involve one of each class, and it is a class competition.
More information about Lynbrook's ASB can be found at its website [http://www.lynbrookasb.org here].
<!-- Please add info on ASB activities like brunch competitions, homecoming, elections, etc. -->
Lynbrook's student ethnicity is mainly Asian American. Isolated from poverty, crime, and gang activity, the school has a relatively low crime and delinquncy rate, thus earning a reputation as one of the safest schools in California. Lynbrook's culture and general environment is  mostsimilar to those of , , and . 
Also,  and Lynbrook have very similar student demographics, social environments, and test scores, but Monta Vista is also Lynbrook's longtime rival. Although the two schools are rivals, there is not a lot of tension between Lynbrook and Monta Vista because students from the two schools get along relatively well.
Like most other American s, Lynbrook is a four-year high school that consists of , , , and  classes. As of 2006 Lynbrook's largest class is the class of 2010.{{Fact|date=March 2007}}
As of the - school year, Lynbrook High School had a total of 1864 students and a senior class of 403. 72% of the students were , 24% were , and 4% of all students consisted of other ethnic groups. Like  and other schools in the Cupertino area, very few , , or  Americans attend Lynbrook. The school is composed mostly of Asian Americans and whites. There are only about 50 Latino students enrolled in the school, and even fewer Filipinos and African Americans.
The ethnic makeup of staff members are highly different from the student demographics, as 79.7% of staff members at Lynbrook High School are . The parent education-level data, as of the 2003-2004 school year, showed that 60% of the students' parents had at least a . Only 10% had only some college or less. 
Many Lynbrook High School students are from -speaking families, of whom a significant percentage have parents from . Other major Asian ethnic sub-groups in Lynbrook include , , and . Minority Asian sub-groups include  and . Less than 10% of Lynbrook High's students are English Language Development (ELD) students, and about half of them speak Mandarin at home. Other ELD students speak , , , and  at home. Because the parents of most Asian American students immigrated to the U.S. in the 1980s and 1990s, many of those students were born in the U.S. Thus, there are relatively few ELD students, even though 71% of the student body is Asian American.
Lynbrook High School's boundaries comprise the western part of  and parts of northern . The school's area is bound to the north by Bollinger Road, to the east by Saratoga Creek, to the south by Cox Avenue, and to the west by De Anza Boulevard. 
Currently, the Residency Verification policy states that all students who are enrolled in Lynbrook High School must be physically residing within the district's boundaries. The Residency Verification Anonymous Hotline is one of the district's ways of helping to enforce the policy. (''see'' ). However, a small number of students live elsewhere but are allowed enrollment due to lottery enrollment or by exceptions from the district.
According to a  article, Lynbrook High, along with rival Monta Vista High School, has also been supposedly affected by a very mild  that has slowly taken place over the years as the Cupertino area has become more densely populated by Asian Americans. The article contends that this phenomenon is due to white students' concerns over intense academic competition with Chinese and Indian Americans. Some white students are also concerned about possibly being an underachieving minority group within the school, as whites collectively have an average API score (844) that is 70 points lower than the average API for Asian Americans.
However, the report has faced much criticism from local residents, the school district, and sociologists, who say that the news article is a biased report that misuses gathered information in order to explain that a new form of white flight exists in the Cupertino- area. Many local students, parents, and teachers claim that Lynbrook High School has not faced any major demographic shifts as they point out that there has not been even a 30% drop in white student enrollment over the past five years. Furthermore, parents of both Asian and European ancestry contend that some white families have chosen to move or send their children to other schools due to an intense focus on academics, not fear of competition with Asian American students.
Lynbrook High School's schedule has Mondays and Thursdays as tutorial schedules. Tuesdays are odd block (only odd-numbered periods are attended), and Wednesdays are even block (only even-numbered periods are attended). Fridays are normal schedules. There are a total of seven periods (from 1 to 7), and 1st and 7th periods are optional (most students take either six or seven periods, although some take as few as four).  
Lynbrook High School's classes usually start at 7:35 A.M. and end at 2:05 (if the student's last class is at period 6) or 2:55 P.M. (if the student has 7th period), although the times may vary slightly for the different days of the school week. On Tuesdays, classes begin at 7:35 A.M., but only odd-numbered periods are attended (periods 1, 3, 5, and 7). Students who do not have 7th period and who do not choose to eat at the school are dismissed at 12:45 P.M. On Wednesdays, classes begin at 9:15 A.M. and only 2nd, 4th, and 6th periods are attended, with a staff development and collaboration period before the start of the second period. Wednesday is the only day of the school week that is late start. The school also has 35-minute tutorial (i.e., study hall) periods on every Monday and Thursday. Brunches are 15-minute breaks, and lunches are 40-minute breaks followed by sixth and seventh periods.
Lynbrook High School's most important policies are covered by the 's main policies, including the Zero Tolerance Policy, Academic Code of Conduct, and Residency Verification. Assistant principals and the Student Legislative Council set minor policies and school rules.
Like most other high schools within the Fremont Union High School District, most of Lynbrook's classes follow an A-F grading system; 90-100% is marked as A, 80-89.9% as B, 70-79.9% as C, 60-69.9% as D, and lower grades are marked as F.
The Lynbrook administration includes principal Mike White, assistant to principal Jan Broman, assistant principals Kathleen Sullivan, and Erik Walukiewicz, and teacher on special assignment Sydney Marsh. Other staff members servicing the school including Jose Ramirez, student conduct specialist, and Xuan Cao and Marissa Goldstein, guidance counselors. A complete list of staff members can be found [http://lhs.fuhsd.org/staffdir/ here].
The administrative offices are all located in the main office next to the library.
Lynbrook offers a total of 17 different AP courses (counting AP Calculus AB and BC as two separate courses) and 8 different honors courses.
'''Laboratory science'''
'''Mathematics'''
'''English language'''
'''Foreign language'''
'''Social studies'''
'''Visual and performing arts'''
A minimum of 220 semester units are required for graduation from Lynbrook High School. Ten units equal one year of work for each period. In order to graduate, students must also pass the , which can be taken during the 10th, 11th, and 12th grades.
! Subject !! Units
Lynbrook's electives include 3D Design, Art, Architecture, Business, Choir, Computer-Aided Design (Drafting), Java, Computer Science, Electronics, French, Japanese, Marching Band, Orchestra, and Spanish. Physical education is a required course for freshmen and sophomores. Sophomores also have the opportunity to take PE Athletics (Team Sports), Total Fitness, or Weight Training instead of PE 10.
Lynbrook considers itself a technology-literate school which uses the  as the primary means of communication. Like some schools within the , teachers, administrators, and students use the [http://fuhsd.aplusboard.com/ A+ Board] for announcements, discussions, assignments and schedules. The A+ Board can also be used for posting e-mail addresses and files.
Teachers use turnitin.com, mygradebook.com, and other such websites to post grades and collect and evaluate papers.
The school library also has 36 public terminals for student use. Two computer labs in Rooms 005 and 006 are only for use by classes that have made appointments with the school, but students may access the computers during Monday and Thursday tutorial periods.
Under the mountain, <br>
Stately and strong. <br>
True to our colors, <br>
We shall raise our song. <br>
Long may our friendship, <br>
Mount to the sky. <br>
Long may we ever sing, <br>
Our praise to Lynbrook High! 
<!-- Categories -->