!colspan="2" style="font-size: larger; background-color:#8080ff; color:{{{fgcolor}}};" | Mainframe
'''Mainframe''' (Real name: Rookie Officer, Tina Cassidy, voiced by Mary Long) is a  in the  (Central Organization of Police Specialists) series from  which ran from 1988-1989.
Hailing from , Mainframe (renamed "Miss Sensor" in Brazilian version) is a rookie cop, who moved to Empire City to serve the ECPD as a  and . Yet, she has more intelligence than all computer systems put together. An absolute  who's never far from any computer terminal, including the one she normally uses in her daily police work and has no problems in using her professional high-tech wizardry to solve even the most critical and chaotic of criminal capers. Because of this, Mainframe, hands down, became the most reliable member of the C.O.P.S. team. She is seen wearing a  cap, a blue and white vest, blue pants, blue earrings, and a yellow shirt.
The comic version of Mainframe featured a much different version of her in appearance, including a different type of vest and hair design than what is seen in the cartoon.
Mainframe is only seen exclusively in both the comics and the cartoon. She was never part of the toy series.
Mainframe shares a codename with  computer specialist Blaine Parker.
In the  DVD set, Disk 1, which one of the bonuses on it features sketches & concept artwork made for the show, has an image of a  wielding a  in her hand. She is the early, original prototype image of Mainframe created by Bart Sears who did the designs for most of the characters of the show before deciding later on to change her into the much more familiar computer whiz.
Mainframe and Hardtop both are the ones responsible of thwarting the first of Big Boss' criminal capers in ''The Case of C.O.P.S. File #1'', where they helped the C.O.P.S. team put a stop to Big Boss' crimewave and ground the Ultimate   Dr. BadVibes has built to pull off the biggest heist in the history of Empire City, even though both were supposed to stay put at the precinct. Mainframe use her computer technology to hack into the large vessel and drain it of all of its energy, causing it to go out of control. Turbo Tu-Tone and Rock Krusher escaped the vessel only to get arrested by the C.O.P.S while Buzzbomb, who also escaped from the vessel, escapes arrest by hiding inside a dumpster. As a result of Mainframe's impressive high-tech performance and Hardtop's incredible driving skills, Bulletproof, warmly and graciously, welcomed both the 2 rookie officers into the C.O.P.S. team.
In this episode both Mainframe and  attended the grand opening of a luxurious spa. But it was taken over by  who capture the 2 C.O.P.S. and made them do janitorial work, including . This doesn't stop Mainframe, along with Mirage, from using this opportunity to clean up the spa of crime and help the rest of her teammates free Mayor Davis from the mesmerizing fumes that trapped him inside the spa's  and send Ms. Demeanor to the cleaners -- which is prison.
Mainframe often teams up with  on many occasions, including in this episode, ''The Case of The Criminal Mall'' where the 3 C.O.P.S. are sent to infiltrate the newly opened , where Mr. Keen has designed an advanced theft-proof security system he claims it will replace every  in Empire City. But the system failed to stop the 3 C.O.P.S. from getting into the mall with the help of Mainframe's alarm-proof device that blocks the alarm from going off as the C.O.P.S. team enters into the mall. Inside, Mainframe, Bowser and Blitz encounters  who got victimized by Keen's  and proceeds to place them under arrest. But, one of Keen's security traps, a robotic  suddenly catches Mainframe, Bowser, and Blitz with its palm branches and traps them way up in it. Then, Buzzbomb frees himself and BadVibes from Keen's security traps with his  and proceeded to the control room where they found the brain to the mall's security system they were looking for. There, Buzzbomb rip the brain from its base and the security system suddenly went haywire, freeing Mainframe and her friends from the clutches of the robotic palm tree. After a failed attempt to radio the team, The 3 C.O.P.S. raced to intercept BadVibes and Buzzbomb, who are chasing  the brain that have managed to get away from the 2 crooks. At Bowser's command, Blitz went and fetch the brain just before the 2 crooks crash into  and  who was sent by  to help BadVibes steal the brain. Blitz raced back and gave the brain to Bowser, who then gave it to Mainframe, who went into the control room where she finds it a "piece of cake" ending the chaos by installing the brain back onto its base where it belong.