The '''Creek War''' (1813&ndash;1814), also known as the '''Red Stick War''' and the '''Creek Civil War''', began as a  within the  nation. It is sometimes considered to be part of the .
The war began as a civil war, but the United States was pulled into the conflict in present-day southern , at the .
On , , the  shook the Creek lands and the .  While the interpretation of this event varied from tribe to tribe, one consensus was universally accepted: the powerful earthquake had to have meant something. <!--(Ehle p. 102-104)-->
A faction of Creeks known as  sought aggressively to return their society to a traditional way of life. Red Stick leaders such as  (Red Eagle), , and , who were allies of the , violently clashed with other chiefs within the Creek Nation over white encroachment on Creek lands and the "civilizing" programs administered by U.S. Indian Agent . Before the Creek Civil War began, the Red Sticks attempted to keep their activities secret from the old chiefs.
In February 1813, a small party of Red Sticks, led by Little Warrior, was returning from  when they massacred two families of settlers along the . Hawkins demanded that the Creek turn over Little Warrior and his six companions. Instead of handing the marauders over to the federal agents, the old Chiefs decided to execute the murderers themselves. This decision was the spark which ignited the civil war between the Creeks.<!--(Adams p. 777-778)-->
The Creeks from the upper towns (Red Sticks) immediately conquered several lower towns within the Creek Nation.  The lower towns had taken conscious steps to assimilate themselves into  culture by raising domesticated animals, farming, and using spinning s.  The Red Sticks destroyed everything that they perceived to have come from the white man, such as the towns' domesticated animals, pots and pans, and homespun cloths.  However, the Red Sticks were not above confiscating the guns and steel blades that they found.         
The first clashes between Red Sticks and the American whites took place when a group of American soldiers stopped a party of Red Sticks who were returning from  on , . The Red Sticks had received munitions from the  governor at Pensacola. The Red Sticks fled the scene, and the soldiers looted what they found. The Creeks, who saw the Americans looting, retaliated with a surprise attack.  The , as the exchange became known, broadened the Creek Civil War to include American forces. <!--(Ehle p. 104-105)-->
In retaliation, Peter McQueen along with William Weatherford led an attack on , north of , on , .  The Red Sticks' goal was to strike at mixed blood Creeks that had taken refuge at the fort. Despite efforts of some of the Creek leaders, a massacre occurred that left 400 to 500 dead.   Panic spread throughout the American Southeastern frontier which demanded government intervention.  Federal forces were busy fighting the British and the Northern Woodland tribes, led by the , so Southern states called up their s to deal with the threat.
After Burnt Corn, U.S. Secretary of War  notified General , Commander of the 6th Military District, that the United States was prepared to take action against the Creek Nation. Further, if Spain were found to be supporting the Creeks, a strike against Pensacola would be justified.  began its preparations by establishing a line of forts along the &mdash;the modern border between  and Georgia. This action would protect the frontier and allow time to prepare an offensive. <!--(Mahon, 232-233)-->
Brigadier General , a militia commander in the , recognized the weakness of his sector on the western border of the Creek territory and advocated a series of preemptive strikes. However, Major General , Commander of 7th Military District, continually refused these requests and reminded Clairborne that the American strategy in that sector was defensive. Meanwhile, settlers in that region sought refuge in blockhouses. <!--Mahon p. 234 -->
In response to the massacre at Fort Mims, the  legislature authorized Governor  to raise 5,000 militia for a three-month tour of duty. Blount called out a force of 2,500  men under Colonel  to "repel an approaching invasion ... and to afford aid and relief to ... Mississippi Territory".<ref>Remini, p. 72</ref> He also summoned a force of 2,500 from  under Major General . Jackson and Cocke were not ready to move until early October. <!--(Remini p. 72, Adams p.787)-->
In addition to the actions of Tennessee, Georgia, and Mississippi, Indian Agent Benjamin Hawkins organized the friendly (Lower Town) Creeks under Major  to aid the Georgia and Tennessee militias during their actions against the Red Sticks.
At the request of Chief Federal Agent , known as White Eagle for the color of his hair, the  Nation voted to join the Americans in their fight against the Red Sticks.  200 Cherokee under the command of  fought with the Tennessee Militia under Andrew Jackson.
By count of towns, the Upper Creek constituted about two thirds of the Creek Nation. Their towns were along the , , and  Rivers in the heart of Alabama. In contrast, the Lower Creek were settled along the .<!--(Adams p. 771)--> Many Creek tried to remain friendly to the United States; but, after Fort Mims, few Americans in the southeast made any distinction between friendly and unfriendly Creeks. <!--(Mahon p. 235)-->
At most, the Red Stick force consisted of 4,000 warriors, possessing perhaps 1,000 guns. They had never been involved in a large scale war, even with their neighbors. Early in the war, General Cocke observed that arrows "form a very principal part of the enemy's arms for warfare, every man having a bow with a bundle of arrows, which is used after the first fire with the gun until a leisure time for loading offers".<ref>Adams, p. 785</ref> <!--(Adams p. 782-783, 785)-->
The Holy Ground (Hickory Ground), located at the junction of the Tallapoosa and Coosa Rivers, was the heart of the Red Stick Confederation.<!--(Mahon p. 235)--> It was about 150 miles (240 km) from the nearest supply point available to any of the three American armies. The easiest attack route was from Georgia through the line of forts on the frontier and then along a good road that led to the Upper Creek towns near the Holy Ground. Another route was north from Mobile along the Alabama River. The most difficult, Jackson's route of advance, was south from Tennessee through a mountainous and pathless terrain. <!--(Adams p. 783)-->
Although Jackson's mission was to defeat the Creek, his larger objective was to move on Pensacola. Jackson's plan was to move south, build roads, destroy Upper Creek towns and then later proceed to Mobile to stage an attack on Pensacola. He had two problems: logistics and short enlistments. When Jackson began his advance, the  was low, making it difficult to move supplies, and there was little forage for his horses. <!--(Mahon p. 236, Adams p.784)-->
Jackson departed  on  . He joined his cavalry in  and crossed the Tennessee, establishing . He then marched to the Coosa and built his advanced base at . Jackson's first successful actions, the battles of  and , occurred in November. <!--(Adams pp. 784-786, Mahon pp. 236-237)-->
However, after Talladega, Jackson was plagued by supply shortages and discipline problems arising from his men's short term enlistments. Cocke, with 2,500 East Tennessee Militia, took the field on . His route of march was from  to  and then along the Coosa toward Fort Strother. Because of jealousy between the East and West Tennessee militia, Cocke was in no hurry to join Jackson, particularly after he angered Jackson by mistakenly attacking a friendly village on . When he finally reached Fort Strother on , the East Tennessee men only had 10 days remaining on their enlistments. Jackson had no choice but to dismiss them. <!--(Adams p. 787, Mahon p. 238-239)--> Further, , who had returned to Tennessee for remounts, wrote Jackson that the cavalry had deserted. By the end of 1813, Jackson was down to a single regiment whose enlistments were due to expire in mid January.
Although Governor Blount had ordered a new levee of 2,500 troops, Jackson would not be up to full strength until the end of February. When a draft of 900 raw recruits arrived unexpectedly on , Jackson was down to a cadre of 103 and Coffee, who had been "abandoned by his men".<ref>Adams, p. 791</ref> <!--(Adams p. 791, Mahon pp. 237-239)-->
Since new men had enlistment contracts of only sixty days, Jackson decided to get the most out of his untried force. He departed Fort Strother on  and marched toward the village of Emuckfaw to cooperate with the Georgia Militia. However, this was a risky decision. It was a long march through difficult terrain against a numerically superior force, the men were inexperienced, undisciplined and insubordinate, and a defeat would have prolonged the war. After two indecisive battles at , Jackson returned to Fort Strother and did not resume the offensive until mid March. <!--(Adams pp. 791-793)-->
The arrival of the  on , , provided Jackson a disciplined core for his force, which ultimately grew to about 5,000 men. After Governor Blount ordered the second draft of Tennessee militia, Cocke, with a force of 2,000 six-month men, once again marched from Knoxville to Fort Strother. Cocke's men mutinied when they learned that Jackson's men only had three month enlistments. Cocke tried to pacify his men, but Jackson misunderstood the situation and ordered Cocke's arrest as an instigator. The East Tennessee militia reported to Fort Strother without further comment on their term of service. Cocke was later cleared. <!--(Adams p. 798)-->
Jackson spent the next month building roads and training his force. In mid March, he moved against the Red Stick force concentrated on the  at Tohopeka (Horseshoe Bend). He first moved south along the , about half the distance to the Creek position, and established a new outpost at . Leaving another garrison there, he then moved on Tohopeka with a force of about 3,000 effectives augmented by 600 Cherokee and Lower Creek allies. The , which occurred on , was a decisive victory for Jackson, effectively ending the Red Stick resistance. <!--(Adams 795-796)-->
The state of Georgia had a militia of perhaps 30,000 men. The  6th Military District, consisting of both  as well as Georgia, had perhaps as many as 2,000 regulars. In principle, General Pinckney, the district commander, could have mounted an offensive that would have ended the Creek war in 1813.  However, efforts in this sector were neither as prompt nor as effective as they could have been. <!--(Adam's p. 783)-->
In late November, General , with a force of 950 militia and 300&ndash;400 friendly Creek, crossed the Chattahoochee and moved toward the Holy Ground. On  he attacked the village of  and drove the Creek from a strong position. After the battle, General Floyd, who was severely wounded, withdrew to the Chattahoochee. Floyd's losses were 11 killed and 54 wounded. Floyd estimated that 200 Creek were killed. <!--(Mahon p. 240, Adams p. 788-789)-->
In mid January, Floyd departed Fort Mitchell with a force of 1,300 militia and 400 friendly Creek, advancing toward the village of Tuckaubatchee to await a link-up Jackson. On , 7 days after Emuckfaw, the Creek attacked his fortified camp on the Calibee Creek. Although the Georgian's repulsed the attack, Floyd and his militia considered this battle a defeat and retreated to Fort Mitchell, abandoning the line of fortified positions that they had created during their advance. Casualty figures vary for Floyd's force&mdash;17 to 22 killed, 132 to 147 wounded. Floyd estimated Red Stick casualties as 37 killed. This was Georgia's last offensive operation of the war. <!--(Adams 793-794, Mahon 242, the second casulty estimates are Mahon's)-->
In October, General  organized a force of about 1,000&mdash;consisting of the , militia, volunteers, and Choctaw Indians&mdash;at . General Clairborne, ordered to lay waste Creek property near junction of Alabama and Tombigbee, advanced from .<!--(?? on the Tombigbee 30 mi. north of Fort Stoddert)--> He achieved some destruction but no military engagement. <!--(Mahon p. 239, Adams p. 789)-->
<!--At roughly the same time, Captain Sam Dale left Fort Madison (near Suggsville) southward to the Alabama River. On November 12 a small party rowed out to intercept a war canoe. Dale wound up alone in the canoe in hand to hand combat with four warriors. (Mahon p. 239)-->
Continuing to a point about 85 miles (140 km) north of Fort Stoddert, Clairborne established . On , he encountered a small force at the Holy Ground and burned 260 houses.  was nearly captured during this engagement but was able to escape. Casualties for the Mississippian's were 1 killed and 6 wounded. 30 Creek warriors were killed in the engagement.
Because of supply shortages, Clairborne withdrew to Fort St. Stephens <!--(Mahon p. 240, Adams p. 789)--> <!--Pinckey est, 1,000 Red Sticks killed at end of 1813. Adams p. 790-->
On , , Andrew Jackson forced the Creeks to sign the .  Despite protest of the Creek chiefs who had fought alongside Jackson, the Creek Nation ceded 23 million acres (93,000 km²)&mdash;half of Alabama and part of southern Georgia&mdash;to the .  Even though the Creek War was largely a civil war among the Creeks, Andrew Jackson recognized no difference between the Creeks that had fought with him and the Red Sticks that fought against him, taking the lands of both.<!--(Burstein p. 106)-->  1.9 million acres (7,700 km²) of the 23 million acres (93,000 km²) Jackson forced the Creeks to cede was claimed by the Cherokee Nation, who had also allied with the United States during the war. <!--(Ehle p. 123)--> 
With the Red Stick menace subdued, Andrew Jackson was able to focus on the Gulf coast region in the War of 1812. On his own initiative, he invaded Spanish Florida and drove a British force out of Pensacola. <!--Mahon 350-->He next defeated the British at the  on , . In 1818, Jackson again invaded Florida, where some of the Red Stick leaders had fled, an event known as the .
As a result of these victories, Jackson became a national figure and eventually rose to become the seventh  in 1829.  As President, Andrew Jackson advocated the  which relocated the  to the West, across the .
<references />
<!-- *{{fnb|4}} Ehle, p. 104 -->
<!-- *{{fnb|5}} Burnstein, p. 106 -->
<!-- *{{fnb|6}} Ehle, p. 123 -->