! colspan="2" style="text-align:center;" | '''' character
! colspan="2" style="text-align:center; font-size: larger; background-color: #001; color: #ffa;" | Yoichi Asakawa
! Gender:
! Appearances:
! Family:
! Home:
! Status:
To close family members in  and Yoichi fans () his pet name is ''Yo-chan''.
Yoichi Asakawa, born , is the seven-year-old son of  and . He lives with his mother in a small flat in Tokyo. His parents divorced when he was young (Four-years-old, it is suggested) and he has very little contact with his father, if any. He was very close to his cousin Tomoko Oishi, daughter of his mother's elder sister Ryomi, and was badly affected by her death. 
Yoichi is very independent and quiet for a boy of his age. Without a male role-model he has made himself man of the house and takes it in his stride to help look after his mother. He tries to support her by helping her; he lays out a change of clothes for her when she comes home from work, walks to school alone and prepares his own dinner. The only person he seems to have a close relationship with is his maternal grandfather, Koichi Asakawa, with who he acts like a normal seven-year-old.
Yoichi is very similar to his father in looks, behaviour and feelings; both are aloof and suppress their feelings. Despite their estrangement, they appear to have special connection, in which they can sense when they are both in danger. He clearly loves both his parents, as demonstrated in '''' but his relationship to both of them is also on a  level too. He is able to see his cousin Tomoko who tells him to watch the cursed vidoetape that his parents are investigating. 
After Yoichi watches the videotape his parents begin to force themselves further to try and find a way to save themselves. They leave Yoichi with his grandfather and learn more about the video. They discover its origin and its creator, . Upon finding her body and laying it to rest, Reiko doesn't die and they believe she is saved. 
Following the events they have been through, a reconciliation between Yoichi's parents seems likely as Reiko and Ryuji appear ready to try again at being a family. However, the hope amounts to nothing as Ryuji dies the next day at his deadline. Reiko realizes (with the help of Ryuji's spirit) that the way to save yourself is to copy the tape and show it to someone else. She travels to her father's house and Yoichi does the same thing as his mother did, giving his grandfather the tape.
In the  of , the Asakawa family (Namely ,  and ) seem to each have a certain amount of  or . Ryuji and Reiko have both demonstrated signs that they can sense s when they are in the same room. Yoichi's powers go beyond this as he can see and even speak to them. This suggests that the abilities ESP can bring are  and the genes carrying the DNA mutate, so the strength of the two parents together becomes the amount of power the child has.
Another interesting point about the family's powers is that they each seem to have a  . If one family member is in trouble, the other two family members automatically know it. This unfortunately aides them as well as it possibly could. Whether these feelings are down to  or simple  between Yoichi and his parents is debatable, but due to the nature of  and the lack of personal connection there was before the events of Ring, the argument for clairsentience is stronger.
''The evidence for ,  and  in the family is used several times during :''
''In , as the result of his father's death, Yoichi is rendered unable to speak. The powers he demonstrates are rooted to his feelings for his parents, both deceased by the end of the film. However, his used of powers take a less realistic effect that the first film had:''
Yoichi is saved in  when his father appeared and took his fear of Sadako away from him. Yoichi was reluctant to hand over his fear to his father, possibly because he knew Sadako's power might harm his father. Though the reasons for the dissolution of Ryuji and Reiko’s marriage are never explained, Yoichi and Ryuji appear to hold a close . Yoichi's bound with his mother, as her feelings for him, while also on a clairsentience level, were mainly maternal.
In comparison, Yoichi appears to also resemble his father in other ways too. His personality is similar as both characters are ,  and emotional vacuums most of the time. The nature of his inner powers resemble Ryuji's rather than Reiko's and like his father he received headaches from being close to supernatural sources. The feelings they both have for each other also don't appear tarnished as the problems Yoichi faces in  are rooted back to the death of his father. Ryuji is also seems to feel the need to look out for Yoichi. During the first film he asks after him to Reiko and asks if he'll be okay being left alone late, to which Reiko replies sadly, ''"He's used to it."''
Depending on which sequel you're viewing the relationship from ( or  many people have different ideas of the feelings Yoichi and Ryuji have for each other. While others say they have little as they rarely see each other, others claim that the likeness between them and concern Ryuji shows for Yoichi proves that he deeply cares for him, if not loves him. Yoichi on the other hand, seems to be devoted to both of his parents regardless of their faults and the lack of emotional connection he has with them.