The '''Black Mountain poets''', sometimes called ''projectivist poets'', were a group of mid 20th century  ''avant-garde'' or  poets centered on .
Although it lasted only twenty-three years (1933-1956) and enrolled fewer than 1,200 students,  was one of the most fabled experimental institutions in art education and practice. It launched a remarkable number of the artists who spearheaded the  in the America of the 1960s. It boasted an extraordinary curriculum in the , , and  as evidenced by some of the artists and teachers listed here:
Its art teachers included  & , , ,  & , , , ,  and . Among their students were , , , , and . 
The performing arts teachers included , , , , , and . Among the literature teachers and students were , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .  Guest lecturers included , , and .
It was a unique educational experiment for the artists and writers who conducted it. Not a haphazardly conceived venture, Black Mountain College was a consciously directed  school that grew out of the .
In , Olson published his seminal essay, ''''. In this, he called for a poetry of "open field" composition to replace traditional closed poetic forms with an improvised form that should reflect exactly the content of the poem. This form was to be based on the line, and each line was to be a unit of breath and of utterance. The content was to consist of "one perception immediately and directly (leading) to a further perception". This essay was to become a kind of ''de facto'' manifesto for the Black Mountain poets. One of the effects of narrowing the unit of structure in the poem down to what could fit within an utterance was that the Black Mountain poets developed a distinctive style of poetic diction (e.g. "yr" for "your").
In addition to Olson, the poets most closely associated with Black Mountain include , , , , , , , ,  and . Creeley worked as a teacher and editor of the '' Black Mountain Review'' for two years, moving to  in 1957. There, he acted as a link between the Black Mountain poets and the s, many of whom he had published in the review. Also, the appearance in 1960 of 's anthology  (which divides the poets included in its pages into various ''schools'') was crucial: it established a legacy and promoted the influence of the ''Black Mountain poets'' worldwide.
Apart from their strong interconnections with the Beats, the Black Mountain poets influenced the course of later American poetry via their importance for the poets later identified with the . They were also important for the development of innovative  poetry since the 1960s, as evidenced by such poets as  and . Modern projectivist poets include .  The recent pamphlets and collections of  (a rare example of a British poet extending Projectivist and  factors convincingly into his work) demonstrate a significant and distinctive way forward for English language poetry in this vein.