<!-- Commanders -->
<!-- Insignia -->
<!-- Culture and history -->
The '''Indian IV Corps''' has a long history.  The Corps HQ was originally a  formation, created during . During  when  entered the war and India was threatened with attack, it was transferred to India.  Subsequently disbanded, it was raised again in  as a formation of the army of .
The Corps was originally formed in 1914, and was moved to Belgium in October 1914, under the command of Sir Henry Rawlinson. It took the brunt of the heroic defence at the First Battle of Ypres.<ref>The Long, Long Trail: The British Army in the First World War</ref> It then fought at the Battle of Neuve Chapelle and subsidiary actions, the Battle of Aubers, and The Battle of Festubert, the Battle of Loos and associated actions, took part in Operations on the Ancre, the German Retreat to the Hindenburg Line, the Cambrai Operations and associated actions, the First Battles of the Somme 1918 and associated actions , the Second Battles of the Somme 1918, the Battles of the Hindenburg Line and associated actions, and the final advance in Picardy.
It was reformed in  on ,  in anticipation of operations in , or perhaps  (part of a projected intervention in the Russo-Finnish ). From March to May, 1940, parts of the corps fought at  and  in the . Its commander was Lieutenant General .
After the Norwegian campaign ended, the Corps first commanded most of the armoured reserves preparing to face the proposed German invasion of Britain, , while the corps which had been evacuated from Dunkirk in  were reorganised. Once the danger of invasion was over, the corps was heavily involved in training and developing tactical doctrine.
When the Japanese entered the war, the IV Corps headquarters (now commanded by Lieutenant General ) was sent to India, along with several units from Britain and the Middle Eastern theatre. Once in India, the skeleton formation was filled out with Indian signals and line-of-communications units, and deployed to  in north-eastern India, under the Indian ''Eastern Army'' (which was now commanded by Irwin). The corps commander was Lieutenant General . The Corps adopted a badge of a charging elephant, in black on a red background.
From late , the Corps formed part of . It fought the epic  in , in which the Corps was surrounded by Japanese forces but eventually defeated their attackers. During that period, supplies and reinforcements were flown in to help the besieged troops.
In , the Corps was commanded by Lieutenant General . Reorganised as a mechanised and airborne force, the Corps struck deep into Japanese occupied territory to capture the vital transportation and supply centre of . Later, it spearheaded the final drive on  from the north, being supplied largely from the air again.
Shortly after the fall of Rangoon, IV Corps was withdrawn from the control of Fourteenth Army and placed under the newly activated . Temporarily commanded by Lieutenant General , it was responsible for mopping up the remaining Japanese forces in Burma until the end of the war. The Corps was deactivated shortly after the end of hostilities.
After Indian independence, IV Corps was first reactivated in  to cover the Chinese frontier. , IV Corps is based in  and part of the Eastern Command. 
Eastern Command consists of III, IV, and XXXIII Corps.
IV Corps consists of the 2nd Mountain Division, at Dibrugarh, 5th Mountain Division, and 21st Infantry (or Mountain?) Division at Rangia.
<references/>