The former '''Royal Air Force Station Coltishall''', more commonly known as '''RAF Coltishall''' {{Airport codes|CLF|EGYC}}, was a  , a  , 10 miles North-North-East of , in the   of , , from 1938 to 2006. 
It was a fighter base in the  and afterwards a base for night fighters then ground attack aircraft until closure.
After longstanding speculation, the future of the station was sealed once the  announced that the , a rolling replacement aircraft, displacing the ageing , would not be based there.  The last of the Jaguar squadrons left on   and the station finally closed, one month early and 10 million under budget, on  .
The station  was ''Aggressive in Defence''.  The station crest is a stone tower surmounted by a mailed fist grasping three bind bolts (arrows), which symbolised a position of strength in defence of the homeland, indicative of the aggressive spirit which Coltishall fighter aircraft were prepared to shoot down the enemy.
,  station crest, , , , .]]
Work on '''RAF Coltishall''' was started in February 1939.  The airfield, then known as Scottow Aerodrome, was initially built as a bomber base, on land near Scottow Hall.  Following the established tradition, the station would have been named after the nearest , which would have made it RAF Buxton, but to avoid possible confusion with , it was named after the local  of  instead.  The airfield was completed and entered service in May 1940 as a fighter base.  The first aircraft movement at Coltishall was a  L7835 flown by  RG Bales and Sergeant Barnes.
During the Second World War, Coltishall operated the , and a notable Coltishall fighter pilot was .  It later became home to s.  At the same time the   operated aircraft from RAF Coltishall over the .  At the end of the war Coltishall was briefly given over to  squadrons until they returned home.
In the 1950s, RAF Coltishall was a designated a V Bomber dispersal base, whereby the bombers of the  aircraft, the ,  and , could use in the event of their home base being damaged by enemy action.
, the station was home to a variety of units and aircraft including , ,  and - from 1963 - the Historic Aircraft Flight (now known as the ).  The last Lightnings left Coltishall in 1974 and were replaced by the  .  The first Jaguar squadron, , arrived at Coltishall on  .  These Jaguars came from the frontline stations in , when they were being re-equipped with the new .
In terms of fixed wing aircraft, the station was exclusively a Jaguar station from then on, and some of the station's pink painted Jaguars participated in the 1991   and , without sustaining a single loss of man or machine, and in subsequent operations over  ()) and then later  once more.  Coltishall was also home to the yellow  (SAR) helicopters of  () and latterly  (), but under subsequent reorganisation, the SAR operations were moved to , in  where they remain.
Coltishall eventually became the last surviving operational RAF airbase from World War 2, and a visible remnant in the form of a Second World War  still stands on the North-West .
With the anticipated arrival of the  in the RAF, the gradual retirement of the Jaguar force began.  Coltishall was not chosen as a future Typhoon base for a number of reasons, and so, with no future RAF role for Coltishall, the station was earmarked for closure.
The , in the '''' review, announced that the station would close by December 2006. The first two Jaguar squadrons to disband,  and , did so on  .  The final Jaquar squadrons departed on  2006, when  transferred to , but was subsequently disbanded on   (to await delivery of the  at  in ), and  transferred to  in OCU role.  The final front line RAF movement from the station was by Jaguar XZ112, piloted by Jim Luke, on  .
Of the final s, the replica Hawker Hurricane was transferred to High Wycombe, and the Jaguar was formally named the , and was subsequently transferred to the grounds of  [http://www.norfolk.gov.uk], where she is dedicated to the memory of all those who served at Coltishall.
Some limited flying from light aircraft including those of the Coltishall Flying Club did continue after the end of RAF flying operations, until October 2006.  While   saw the disbandment parade for the station, it did not actually disband and finally close until  .  Associated facilities such as the Douglas Bader  have also closed.  The final day of the station saw the gates being opened to the public - anybody with photographic ID was welcomed onto the station to have a look around and view the final closing ceremony, which saw a  by four RAF Jaguars, and a solitary  from .
On  , RAF Coltishall was officially handed over to  (the MoD agency responsible for all UK Military sites) who are to handle the disposal of the site, and will be formally known as MoD Coltishall until its ultimate disposal.  During January 2007, the  expressed an interest, and in early February earmarked the site for potential use as an immigration detention facility, but this was subsequently ruled out.  In December 2007, fresh reports in the media suggest the site will be used as a , but this has angered local residents who have not been informed of the disposal progress.
In July 2007 a petition was set up on the  website by Jeremy Godwin to campaign for Coltishall to be reopened as a Civil Airfield.
More than one year on from the official closure, the official fate of the former RAF airbase has yet to be decided. As of 2008, it is one of 15 sites shortlisted as an .
Some 40-plus different types of aircraft have operated out of Coltishall at some point in its history, among these:
As home to the , a sole  bomber operated out of Coltishall post war.
<br>
<br>
<br>