Born in , he was raised along with his cousin , by his uncle, an  priest. Originally serving  and , at the age of 13 he became Oda Nobunaga's . By sixteen, he'd been assigned prefect ('''') in charge of the construction of  's residence at , working with the likes of , , , ,  and . Gradually, however, he began to spend more and more time on the battlefield. In 1575, he aided in Nobunaga's assaults on the  of , and fought the  two years later, leading Nobunaga's army alongside Hashiba Hideyoshi and . He also led corps of  in a number of battles.
Hidemasa was granted the fief of , in , in 1581, with an income of 25,000 ''''. Though some sources say he also controlled  at this point, most sources indicate this castle belonged to Hideyoshi. It is also important to note that while there was a nearby fief held by a Buddhist temple, with the same ''kokutaka'' (assessment of land-value in ''koku''), these should not be confused.
The following year, Oda Nobunaga was killed in the , but Hidemasa remained loyal to his lord's clan, following  into battle against  and the . He was still ''bugyō'' throughout this period though, and so continued this position as well, overseeing the construction of a mansion for Portguese missionaries, and playing a role in hosting the 1579  (安土宗論, ''Azuchi shūron''). Serving as Nobunaga's representative, he also hosted the likes of , , and others. Following the death of his lord, he came to serve Toyotomi Hideyoshi.
Hidemasa led Hideoyshi's vanguard in the 1582 , along with  and , and received great praise the following year from Tokugawa Ieyasu for his battle prowess. At that time, Hideyoshi had just begun fighting , and Ieyasu expressed his confidence that the campaign would go smoothly. Hidemasa was promoted to the fifth rank, appointed to the  (左衛門, Court Security Office), and granted  in  as his fief, with an income of 90,000 ''''. He then arranged negotiations for Hideyoshi with the Ikkō sect which had fervently opposed Nobunaga; the head priest of  was Hidemasa's cousin , and so the negotiations went quite smoothly.
Hidemasa led portions of Hideyoshi's forces once again, in the 1584 , in which they suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of the Tokugawa army. Ambushed by  and , they successfully held off their attackers for a time, but upon meeting the main Tokugawa force of 9000, were forced to retreat. The following year, Hideyoshi became  (Imperial regent), and Hidemasa was promoted to the fourth rank at court, and appointed to a new post as well. Following the  and the , he was given the lands of the late Niwa Nagahide,  in , with an income of 180,000 ''koku''.
During the 1587 , Hidemasa once again led the vanguard of Hideyoshi's forces. As various castles fell, and fifty or so  warriors were captured, he released them rather than killing them. It is said that he had absolutely no rest for much of the campaign, fighting battle after battle with no break.
The 1590  would see Hidemasa commanding in battle for the final time. He commanded the left flank of the besieging army with a number of great warriors under him, and captured a number of surrounding fortifications. But then, late in the fifth month, he suddenly fell very ill and died. His lands and posts were inherited by his eldest son, .