'''Jabbin''' is a  chat program for  and  phone calls via  protocols.
Jabbin allows Jabber instant messaging and free voice calls.
It is cross-platform with versions for Linux and Windows. A port to  is in development.
The program is based on the   client.
Both are written in  and use the cross-platform  library to provide their . Version 3.3.x of Qt is used so it's not very easy to build Jabbin on Windows using only open-source components. Either unofficial (but legal) Windows port for Qt 3.3.x/X11 needs to be used or Qt 3.3.x commercial license required)
Like Psi, Jabbin uses the Jabber or  communication protocol, but uses the  library for   connections.
Jabbin incorporates the libjingle support from Psi (where it was still considered experimental) with additional Windows support and uses the free voice codec .
The first version, 1.0, was released in December 2005, based on the development Psi 0.10.
The telephone connections were made via the  extension to XMPP.
Since version 2.0, VoIP support was backported from Psi and extended to work on . 
It uses the libjingle library from Google, but does not (despite the confusing name) implement the Jingle protocol from the XMPP Standards Foundation. The support for this protocol replaced TINS.
For version 3, Jabbin plans to support  calls.
Current (28.05.2008) SVN arleady has many important fixes and additions like fix for Service Discovery(with was broken in betas of 2.0),workable  and workable support for Jabbin->PSTN calling (this feature require server-side support, it works with OpenFire+Asterisk pair as server, which is used on JabberOut.com(currently in beta)).
Update (April 9 2008): Now you will be redirected to a commercial web page of "Telecom64". The last version of the software (2006-07-21) is still available at [http://sourceforge.net/projects/jabbin/ Sourceforge].
Update (May 28 2008): VoIP->PSTN call is not reliable in precence of Symmetric NATs and/or UDP blocking (VoIP module currently doesn't auto-fallback to TCP)
At present (Feb 19 2008) you'll be shown "This site may harm your computer" when invoking the official Jabbin website by .
This happens within the campaign  which also listed  as badware.