The '''Fox affiliate switches of 1994''' was a series of events resulting from a multi-million dollar deal between , known commonly as '''Fox''', and , an owner of several VHF television stations affiliated with major networks, primarily .
The major impetus for the changes was to improve local coverage of the fledgling network's new  packages. As a result of various other deals that followed as a result of the affiliation switches, most notably the buyout of CBS by , the switches constituted some of the most sweeping changes in  history.
For some time, , chief executive officer of , the parent company of the Fox network, lusted after a major-league sports presence for his network.  He thought that landing a live sports broadcasting package would elevate Fox to the level of ,  and , the other nationwide broadcast networks in the United States at the time.
In , the network bid for '''', then the NFL's crown-jewel program, but the offer was rejected.  , Fox stunned the sports and TV worlds by acquiring partial rights to the NFL.  The package &ndash; covering four seasons of games involving teams in the , as well as several s, a package previously owned by CBS &ndash; cost Fox $1.58 billion. CBS, then run by the cost-cutting , had reportedly bid only $290 million and was unwilling to even approach the Fox offer.
At the time of Fox's bid, most of its affiliates were lower-powered  stations. As Fox put together its new sports division to cover the NFL, it wanted to affiliate with  stations that had lower channel numbers (channels 2 to 13), more established histories, and carried more value with advertisers.
In the spring of 1994, months after completing the NFL contract, Fox agreed to purchase a 20 percent stake in New World Communications in a multi-million-dollar deal.  The following stations were part of the deal:
In addition, two Citicasters stations,  () and  (Tampa/St. Petersburg) were left out of the New World deal. Both would later be sold to ; today, WKRC is owned by , which on ,  bought the television division of  (which had purchased Jacor back in 1999).  WTSP is owned by . Neither station would have been of any benefit to Fox. In WKRC's case, the  aired on NBC and  at the time. Ironically, the Bengals' games now air on WKRC. And in WTSP's case, New World already owned WTVT, which was the higher-rated of the two stations at the time.
Not all the stations involved would switch to Fox:  
The key to the deal was that Fox upgraded its affiliate stations in several markets. Before the deal, of the 14 NFC teams at the time, only four had VHF Fox affiliates, the , , , and . All were Fox  stations  (O&O) with the exception of the San Francisco affiliate, , which remains the largest Fox affiliate not owned by the network to this day.
Most of the stations involved in the New World deal were located in markets with teams from the , considered the more prestigious of the two NFL conferences for two reasons. First, the teams in the NFC were located in nine of the ten largest television markets at the time; the lone exception being , whose only NFL team, the , plays in the . Additionally, many of the NFC teams have existed before the formation of the old  and therefore contain longer histories, rivalries and traditions. Also, at the time the NFC was considered the "stronger" conference of the two and was in the midst of a 13-game winning streak against the AFC in the .
Many of the stations in affected markets were former  affiliates from which Fox won the NFC rights, thus fans would continue to see at least their team's road games on local VHF stations.
'''NFC teams in markets related to deal:'''
KTBC and WITI served markets containing significant fan bases for nearby NFC teams. KTBC served the  area and had aired Cowboys games for years (including during preseason), while WITI had broadcast Packers games to its  audience since becoming a CBS affiliate in .
In , a year after the Fox switches, St. Louis received an NFC team, when the Rams moved there. This made  the eighth station (and sixth in an NFC market) among the stations involved in the switchover, bringing the total number of NFC teams with VHF Fox affiliates to nine. That same year, the  joined the NFL as an expansion team, which made  another satellite "home" station for an NFL team as the Panthers are based in , which is directly south of the  region where WGHP is situated.
Just weeks after completing the New World deal, Fox announced another purchase, this one of Burnham Broadcasting.  The stations involved were:
Fox would own the stations in conjunction with Savoy Broadcasting, a minority-owned communications firm. The deal gave Fox upgrades for the home markets of two more teams: the Packers and the , giving Fox VHF affiliates in eleven of the fifteen NFC markets.
Overnight, the landscape of local television in many areas changed as viewers got used to new affiliations.
The transition was straightforward in some cases, as Kansas City, St. Louis, Austin, Cleveland and the  saw the old Fox affiliates simply swap with the new ones.  replaced WDAF as Kansas City's NBC affiliate, while  and  affiliated with ABC in St. Louis and the Piedmont Triad, respectively.  in Austin and  in Cleveland affiliated with CBS. All five were UHF stations.
The largest affiliation swap occurred in Central Alabama, including the  area, where six different stations changed affiliations due to WBRC moving from ABC to Fox.  and , the CBS affiliates for  and , merged and became the combined ABC affiliate for Birmingham and Central Alabama. , the former Fox affiliate for , became the CBS affiliate for northeast Alabama before eventually becoming the  network affiliate for Birmingham.  and , the Fox affiliates for Birmingham and Tuscaloosa, became independent stations before eventually affiliating with the .
As expected, CBS bore the worst brunt of the changes. The network had already developed a stodgy image under its CEO, , and saw its ratings slip following the deal. When it lost the NFL to Fox, the problems accelerated as CBS struggled to compete with NBC and ABC in the ratings, even though the network still finished ahead of Fox. CBS eventually recovered and by , was the most-watched network until it was surpassed by ABC in  and NBC in  before retaking the lead again in  as "America's Most Watched Network", a title it continues to hold to this day.
CBS' problems were especially evident in the recruiting of new affiliates. Only four new CBS affiliates were VHF stations. In the ,  (Channel 11), became the new CBS affiliate after  switched to Fox. The former Fox O&O in the Metroplex,  (Channel 33), became a WB affiliate, and is now affiliated with The CW. CBS also gained a new VHF affiliation in Phoenix, after CBS moved to former independent station  (which ironically was CBS's original Phoenix affiliation), owned by the . As part of the KPHO deal, CBS wanted co-owned  (channel 5), an NBC affiliate, to be a CBS affiliate instead of  (channel 25) in the -- Michigan market.  WEYI-TV became an NBC affiliate as a result. As a by-product of the KTVT deal, another new VHF CBS affiliate at the time was then sister station  in Seattle, which replaced  in that area. This affiliation only lasted two years though, as KIRO-TV returned to CBS in 1997 following a sale of the station to . (Ironically, both KTVT and KSTW are now both owned by CBS.) Additionally, CBS reached new affiliation deals with displaced VHF ABC affiliates WKRC in Cincinnati and WTSP in Tampa (see below).
The affiliate switches also led to another deal involving , the parent company of KSHB. Scripps' two highest-profile stations,  in Cleveland and  in Detroit (the latter of which was previously owned-and-operated by the network until the  buyout of ABC in 1986), were being courted by CBS to replace WJW and WJBK, respectively. In order to keep ABC on WEWS and WXYZ, Scripps required ABC to switch its affiliations to four of the company's non-ABC affiliates. These stations were  in Baltimore,  in Cincinnati,  in Phoenix, and  in Tampa, the latter two of which were also slated to lose Fox due to the New World deal. This deal stripped WKRC in Cincinnati and WTSP in Tampa, the two Citicasters stations not involved in the New World deal, of their ABC affiliations, along with top-rated  in Phoenix, which ended up becoming an independent station.
But the switchovers especially upset , the owners of ABC's longtime affiliate in Baltimore, , which had been the longest-tenured ABC affiliate in the nation at the time. Westinghouse eventually sought an affiliation deal of its own, and in , the company agreed to affiliate its entire broadcast station fleet with CBS, two of which ( in  and  in ) were already affiliated with the network. In , KPIX and KDKA-TV, both of whom along the rest of the Westinghouse stations were known for pre-empting some network programs, began carrying the entire CBS schedule as a condition of the deal. This was followed by WJZ-TV and  NBC affiliate  switching to CBS at the end of , and then the switchover before the beginning of the 1995-1996 television season of  in  from NBC to CBS, whom Westinghouse also sold a minority share of KYW-TV to.
The various deals following the New World announcement left CBS with a slew of lesser-known affiliates, especially in Atlanta, Detroit, and Milwaukee, where the new affiliates were all low-profile UHF stations with far less transmitting power than their previous affiliates:
The primary plus for the new Fox stations collectively was an increase in the amount of news covered on these stations, which Fox had high interest in doing as the network had (and still to this day has) no national newscasts. Over time, the former Big Three stations which had aired newscasts for years expanded them along with many original Fox stations. Morning newscasts on Fox stations gradually expanded to compete with the national morning shows aired by the Big Three.
However, New World's Fox affiliates saw mixed results with their newscasts:
Additionally, some of the new Fox affiliates, perhaps in appealing to Fox's younger-skewing audiences, moved many older news personalities to daytime broadcasts or released them entirely from their news teams. Some of these personalities eventually wound up on other stations, including the new Big Three affiliates.
Unfortunately, many of the new Big Three affiliates were not as lucky. As these were former Fox affiliates (or independents) that did not have newscasts at the time, almost all of them had to give in to launching them to back up the nationally-aired newscasts provided by the networks. Generally, the stations that continue to air newscasts to this day have finished in fourth place behind their VHF competitors. However, many of these stations, such as Scripps' ,  and  have seen gradual growth in their ratings, as have former Fox-turned-CBS affiliates  and . Even  and  have seen growth, yet all stations still rank fourth place on average.
Still, other new affiliates that launched newscasts experienced no permanent success. In Detroit,  premiered a newscast in fall  produced by sister station . Both the WKBD and WWJ newscasts were cancelled in late  under an agreement made by  to produce WKBD's news.  WWJ is now the largest-market major-network affiliate, and the only O&O of any major network, to have no newscasts. From  to , WWJ-TV began making light of this fact by using a slogan, ''Where No News is Good News'', for promoting programming during periods where there would usually be newscasts.
Two ABC affiliates,  in St. Louis and  in the Piedmont Triad region, also experienced difficulty.  KDNL's news department lasted for six years until its cancellation, which was widely blamed on a transmitter problem, and is now the fifth-rated station in the St. Louis market, behind CW affiliate .  KDNL's current position as one of ABC's weakest affiliates, perhaps the weakest among Top 50 markets stands in sharp contrast to KTVI, which was one of ABC's strongest stations.  WXLV's newscast was cancelled under orders of its owner  (through its controversial  division) due to poor ratings. WXLV also had run newscasts since becoming an ABC affiliate until .
, which was one of the few major markets not to see an affiliation switch (and besides  airing the full slate of CBS programming due to the Westinghouse/CBS deal, was not affected by the switch at all), saw Fox affiliate  start a 10 PM newscast in 1996, likely in response to markets that were affected now having newscasts from all four networks. While ratings were strong initially and only competed against the cable-only  (owned by , which also owns NBC affiliate ), they declined sharply after KDKA launched a 10 PM newscast on sister station  in 2001. , which owns WPGH and sister station , entered into a news share agreement with WPXI in 2006 and shut down WPGH's news division, with PCNC now airing a 7PM newscast so that it wouldn't compete with the WPXI-produced newscast on WPGH. Ratings have since been more competitive in the 10 PM slot.
When Fox made the affiliation agreement with New World, all 12 stations that switched to Fox chose not to carry Fox's Monday-Saturday  children's programming due to interest in airing more local news, which is uncharacteristic of a broadcast network affiliate.  Big Three affiliates are required to air their network's children's program block (although the Big Three only aired their shows on Saturdays compared to Fox Kids' six), and when New World was bought out by Fox, it became the first network which had O&Os that did not air all network programming.  However, one New World station eventually picked up Fox Kids.
St. Louis' KTVI initially rejected Fox Kids as did all of New World's stations that affiliated with Fox.  But religious station , owned by the New Life Christian Church, chose to air ministry messages in place of commercials as the church's reverend Larry Rice, refused to show commercials during Fox Kids programming.  Fox was not pleased with controversial topics such as abortion being shown during Fox Kids programming, which led Fox to move Fox Kids to KTVI.  KTVI remains the only ex-New World station airing 4Kids TV, however the station airs it two hours earlier than other stations that carry 4Kids TV, due to a morning newscast airing at 9 am.
Although five stations (KSAZ, WGHP, WJW, KTBC and WAGA) had rejected Fox Kids programming (in its Fox Kids, FoxBox and  iterations), none of them filled the timeslots with local news on s, instead filling the time with paid programming, local home selling presentation shows, and E/I programming acquired via syndication.
Many stations that rejected Fox Kids passed it to another station in the market, typically an independent station or a smaller network affiliate, this especially true following Fox's purchase of  in . However in four ex-New World markets (Atlanta, Austin, Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point, Birmingham), 4Kids TV does not air on another station in any of those markets due to stations dropping the lineup. In Milwaukee, 4Kids TV has aired on independent station , a Class A television station, since September 2004. Though the station has extended cable coverage throughout the market, it is much less than former Fox Kids station .
At least three other stations (two of which are owned by Fox) have pulled such a maneuver.  WFLD in Chicago, one of the original Fox O&Os dropped 4Kids TV and moved it to sister station  in . Minneapolis' KMSP also dropped 4Kids TV in , moving it to sister station  in the process.  in  (owned by ) moved 4Kids TV to MyNetworkTV affiliate  (also owned by Sinclair) the same year.  In all three cases it was due to an expansion of their morning newscasts to Saturday mornings.
Because these Fox stations deny clearance of 4Kids TV, 4Kids TV is merely a syndication package, despite Fox continuing to advertise in promos airing during select Fox primetime shows that 4Kids TV programming is part of the network.  If Fox limited 4Kids TV to air on Fox stations only, affiliates could be given the choice to broadcast the lineup around local news, as the case is with ABC and CBS.
Until such a thing happens, all Fox-owned stations that do not air 4Kids TV air syndicated educational programs that meet  guidelines (unlike those seen on 4Kids TV) in its place, either following a newscast or in place of it, such as '''' and '''', so as to not violate  regulations requiring commercial broadcasters to air a certain amount of children's programming (deemed educational and informative) each week.
Fox continued to upgrade its stations in at least two unrelated deals struck later:
At least one other station owner has pulled off a similar maneuver.  In ,  moved the Fox affiliation in the - market from , on UHF channel 49, to , on VHF channel 12 (Coincidentally, KPTV was a charter Fox afiliate from 1986-88).  Meredith had just acquired KPTV from Chris-Craft.  In an ironic twist, Fox Television Stations Group would later buy all the remaining Chris-Craft stations, which in  would all join  as part of the .  This makes for an indirect connection between the last two major changes in broadcast affiliate lineups in the U.S.
On the other hand, CBS saw an affiliate downgrade from VHF to UHF in an unrelated transaction, which occurred in the - market, home of the .  (Being in the AFC, most Jaguars game are on CBS.)  In the summer of , , which owns , terminated that station's longtime affiliation with CBS in a dispute over compensation.  The new affiliate became , which had been the local outlet of  (which was then co-owned with CBS).  WJXT broadcasts on channel 4; WTEV on channel 47.  The new UPN affiliate became Fox affiliate , on a secondary basis.  Both WAWS and WTEV were sold by Clear Channel to , but because of FCC regulations forbidding the ownership of two of the four top-rated stations in a market (Clear Channel had purchased WTEV when it was a low-rated UPN station), Newport is selling WTEV to , though Newport will continue to operate the station through a . Due to the network switch in Jacksonville, nearby 's WB affiliate  (channel 53), also switched to CBS in order to keep the network available in that area, sending the WB affiliation to a digital subchannel of WGFL (now the area's MyNetworkTV affiliate, as well as low-power ).
Only one other AFC team plays home games in a market with a UHF CBS affiliate: the  market, home of the , has  (channel 19) as its CBS affiliate.  WOIO was once Cleveland's FOX station before the market was involved in the New World deal.
The affiliation switches helped elevate Fox to major network status on par with its older competitors.  As of 2007, its sports division has expanded to include  and . The  once aired on Fox as well, from  - .
Beginning in , Fox Sports also claimed rights to the  with the exception of the , which has an agreement of its own with . It also airs coverage of the  and is the exclusive television home of the . Fox Sports' coverage now also includes four  races and live coverage of two  races. Fox Sports' coverage also has expanded beyond terrestrial television with several cable networks, led by , which offers 24-hour sports coverage and many home team broadcasts.
Fox's entertainment programs have also benefited from the heavy promotion they received during the sportscasts. Some of the beneficiaries include shows already on Fox at the time, such as '''', as well as newer programs like '''' and ''''. In fact, ''Idol'' has been the number one rated  program on all networks the last three years (,  and ).
While CBS did eventually recover, its recovery is partially linked to, ironically, reacquiring NFL rights in 1998 when it took over rights to the AFC from NBC. The  saw the , an original AFL team, defeat the  in , which aired on NBC and ended a 13-year drought against the NFC in the Super Bowl. Around the time CBS took over the rights to the AFC saw the trend of the 1980's and 1990's reverse, in that the AFC became the dominant conference over the NFC. The  dynasty in the 2000's in the only AFC-only top-ten market also contributed to the ratings surge. In addition, the current AFC deal also saw CBS indirectly acquire rights to air games played by the , which air locally on  (which was a CBS O&O by the time NFL rights were reacquired and has long been one of CBS's strongest stations) and often get the highest ratings for an NFL team on television due to the team's rabid fanbase on a national level.
To this day, six of the Fox stations owned by New World which changed affiliations (, , , ,  and ) are still owned and operated by .  , the division of NewsCorp that controls the stations, announced its intent on ,  to sell nine of their stations, six of which are former New World stations , , , ,  and  (the other stations Fox has announced its intention to sell are  in ,  in , and  in ). Of these nine, only KTVI is located in an NFC market (by way of the ). Subsequently, on  of that same year, Fox agreed to sell eight of the stations -- all except WHBQ -- to , a subsidiary of . This group deal closed on , . Under the control of Local TV, the eight stations will remain Fox affiliates for the foreseeable future.
Fox no longer owns any of the former Burnham stations. Savoy/Fox (SF) sold the stations in  to now-defunct Silver King Broadcasting (later ) and later to  to . Emmis has since sold WLUK and WALA to  and KHON to , who later sold KHON to . It took until May of  for Emmis to finally find a buyer for WVUE, when the Louisiana Media Company, a new media holdings group founded by  owner , purchased the station (pending FCC approval). WVUE's sale process had been made more difficult in the aftermath of , which greatly affected its New Orleans viewing area. All stations are still Fox affiliates.
As a result of the affiliation deals, Fox now has VHF affiliates in 13 out of 16 television markets with NFL teams that are based in the NFC, including the , who moved from the AFC to the NFC in 2002; Seattle's Fox affiliate, , broadcasts on VHF channel 13. Only the ,  and  are located in markets with UHF Fox affiliates.  Two of them,  in Chicago and  in Philadelphia, are owned by the network.  The third station,  in Charlotte, is owned by .
Westinghouse bought CBS in 1996 after the affiliation deals, making all stations CBS owned-and-operated stations.  bought CBS in 1999, which created  in several markets between CBS O&O's and UPN O&O's.  and CBS split in 2006, with the current  retaining the broadcasting side of the company including UPN. Shortly afterward, CBS and  announced the merger of UPN and The WB to form . All of the stations that CBS acquired either by the station swap with NBC or when the network itself was acquired by Westinghouse are still owned by CBS except for  which was sold to  in 2007.
To this day, Washington, D.C. is the only Top 10 market from 1994 outside of New York, Los Angeles and Chicago not to have its ownership and/or major network affiliations (outside of network shutdowns and debuts) affected during and since the switches (Atlanta, Dallas and Detroit were affected by the New World deal, while Boston and Philadelphia were affected via the Westinghouse deal). While  was also not affected by the switches at the time and its major network affiliates remain the same, it was not a Top 10 market when the switches took place, as Houston only became a Top 10 market in 2005-06, surpassing Detroit.
San Francisco was also unaffected by the 1994 switches, as Westinghouse-owned KPIX-TV was already an affiliate of CBS. In , however, its longtime NBC affiliate, , became an independent station after a bitter dispute between new KRON owner  and NBC.  After Young outbid NBC to purchase the station from its original owner , NBC demanded that Young run the station in a fashion similar to that of an NBC O&O as a condition of renewal of its affiliation. NBC eventually bought San Jose ABC affiliate  (which also served as the de facto ABC affiliate for the Monterey-Salinas market at the time).