<!-- BEGIN WikiProject Mountains infobox (scroll down to edit main article text) -->
!bgcolor="#e7dcc3" colspan="2"|Springer Mountain
'''Springer Mountain''' is located in the  in  of northern . It is now the southern terminus of the .  
The mountain's peak is at 3,780 feet above .
In , the southern terminus of the Appalachian Trail was moved from  approximately 14 miles to the northeast to Springer Mountain because of increased development around Mount Oglethorpe. The most popular approach trail to Springer Mountain starts at the visitor's center of  and is 8.3 miles (13.4 km) in length. There is also another trail, leading from a parking lot on a forest service road, that is only 1.8 mile (2.89 km) round trip (.9 miles one way). At the peak of Springer Mountain is a bronze plaque with the Appalachian Trail logo, a register for hikers to sign, and a benchmark. An open-front trail shelter is provided for hikers.
Springer Mountain Shelter is located at coordinates (84.19293W, 34.62883) on a spur trail leading about 70 yards (64 m) east of the Appalachian Trail.  Blue blazes mark the spur trail.  The trail junction (84.19376W, 34.62880N)is about 800 feet (240 m) north of the brass plaque marking the southern terminus of the Appalachian Trail.  The shelter has a raised first floor and a sleeping loft reached by a permanent ladder.  Each level of the shelter can comfortably sleep four or five backpackers.
There are a fire circle and wooden picnic table in front (west) of the shelter.  There is a three-walled privy down the hill directly behind the shelter.  There is a piped spring about 30 yards (25 m) south of shelter.  The spring provided water even in recent drought years.  There are two sturdy cables strung in trees near the shelter.  Each is equipped with pulleys and hoisting lines for hauling backpacks and food bags out of reach of the local bears, raccoons and rodents.
There is a meadow with room for many tents near the intersection of the Appalachian Trail and the spur trail to the shelter.  The meadow also has a fire circle.
The southern terminus of the  (84.19362W, 34.62963N) is about one hundred yards north of the shelter's spur trail's junction.  A bronze plaque honors .  The plaque is on a rock by the Benton MacKaye Trail a few yards east of the Appalachian Trail.
ftytfy