The  uses a number of terms to define the magnitude and extent of nuclear incidents. 
 directive 5230.16, ''Nuclear Accident and Incident Public Affairs (PA) Guidance'', [http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/html/523016.htm]  Manual 3150.03B ''Joint Reporting Structure Event and Incident Reporting'', and the  Operation Reporting System, as set out in Air Force Instruction 10-206 [http://www.e-publishing.af.mil] detail a number of terms for internally and externally (including press releases) reporting nuclear incidents. They are used by the United States of America, and are neither NATO nor global standards.
''Pinnacle'' is a   OPREP-3 (Operational Event/Incident Report) reporting flagword used in the United States National Military Command Center (NMCC)/National Command Authority structure. The term "Pinnacle" denotes an incident of interest to the Major Commands, Department of Defense and , in that it:
All of the following reporting terms are classified ''Pinnacle'', with the exception of ''Bent Spear'', ''Faded Giant'' and ''Dull Sword''. AFI 10-206 notes that the flagword ''Pinnacle'' may be added to ''Bent Spear'' or ''Faded Giant'' to expedite reporting to the NMCC.
''Bent Spear'' refers to incidents involving nuclear weapons, warheads, components or vehicles transporting nuclear material that are of significant interest but are not categorized as ''Pinnacle - Nucflash'' or ''Pinnacle - Broken Arrow''. ''Bent Spear'' incidents include violations or breaches of handling and security regulations.
''Pinnacle - Broken Arrow'' refers to an accidental event that involves nuclear weapons, warheads or components, but '''''which does not create the risk of nuclear war'''''.  These include:
An example of a Broken Arrow event is the  in which four thermonuclear devices were accidentally dropped on Spain after a collision during refueling between a  strategic nuclear bomber and a  refueling aircraft.
''Pinnacle - Nucflash'' refers to detonation or possible detonation of a nuclear weapon '''''which creates a risk of an outbreak of '''''. Events which may be classified ''Nucflash'' may include:
This term (''Pinnacle Nucflash'') is a report that has the highest precedence in the OPREP-3 reporting structure. All other reporting terms such as ''Broken Arrow'', ''Empty Quiver'', etc., while very important, are secondary to this report. (Reference Air Force Instruction 10-206, dated 4 October 2004)
''Pinnacle - Emergency Disablement'' refers to operations involving the emergency destruction of nuclear weapons.
''Pinnacle - Emergency Evacuation'' refers to operations involving the emergency evacuation of nuclear weapons.
''Pinnacle - Empty Quiver'' refers to the seizure, theft, or loss of a functioning nuclear weapon.
''Faded Giant'' refers to an event involving a  or other radiological accident not involving nuclear weapons. The most recent ''Faded Giant'' incident occurred with the  in August 2000.
''Dull Sword'' is an Air Force reporting term that marks reports of minor incidents involving nuclear weapons, components or systems, or which could impair their deployment. This could include actions involving vehicles capable of carrying nuclear weapons but with no nuclear weapons on board at the time of the accident.
Several of these terms have, in various forms, entered . [http://www.deadprogrammer.com/?p=1469] [http://www.cnn.com/SPECIALS/cold.war/experience/the.bomb/broken.arrows/intro.html] They have not always been used correctly.