'''USS ''Keppler'' (DD/DDE-765)''' was a   in the  during the  and the . She was named for Boatswain's Mate First Class  (1918–1942), who was posthumously awarded the  for "extraordinary heroism" during the .
<!--
DANFS says the name is "John Reinhardt Keppler", but other sources disagree:
http://www.history.navy.mil/photos/pers-us/uspers-k/r-kepler.htm
http://www.army.mil/cmh-pg/mohiia2.htm
http://www.cem.va.gov/CEM/cems/nchp/goldengate.asp
-->
''Keppler'' was launched   by , Shipbuilding Division,  sponsored by Mrs. Elizabeth L. Keppler, widow of BM1c Keppler; and commissioned  , Commander P.&nbsp;M. Cauiglio in command. 
After shakedown along the West Coast, ''Keppler'' cleared   1947 for training exercises in an waters. The destroyer then sailed to  and  before returning San Diego  . Early in 1949 ''Keppler'' entered  for conversion to antisubmarine destroyer. Resuming operations on the  , she departed San Diego  for duty in the . 
Arriving  15 days later, she immediately commenced intensive  (ASW) exercises along the Atlantic Coast. ''Keppler'' sailed to , her new , for additional hunter-killer operations, arriving . She was reclassified '''DDE-765''' on   and cleared Newport  for the . Arriving  , the antisubmarine destroyer was ordered to the  on the eve of the . 
After transiting the  and crossing the , ''Keppler'' joined the  in mid-August. For the next 2 months she patrolled the  before joining  (CV-47) on . For the next 3 months she screened her task group during continued carrier air strikes against  positions on the n mainland. ''Keppler'' then steamed for , , arriving  . Three days later she cleared port for the United States, reaching Newport . She was overhauled and for the rest of the year engaged in refresher training and ASW operations.
''Keppler'' cleared Newport once again   to participate in antisubmarine exercises with the . This cruise culminated in  Exercise "Grandslam," In which ships of several nations operated together in practice maneuvers. The antisubmarine destroyer returned to Newport  and resumed operations along the Atlantic Coast.
From 1952 to 1957 ''Keppler'' continued her ASW exercises out of Newport and the  in addition to NATO operations and Mediterranean cruises with the 6th Fleet.  
On   she sailed toward n waters for a training and good will cruise. Before returning Newport 18 March, she visited ports in , , , ,  , and . After completing additional costal exercises, ''Keppler'' was deployed to the Mediterranean 12 August During September she transited the Suez Canal to the , during the . ''Keppler'' returned to Newport 21 December. 
From 1958 to 1961 the antisubmarine destroyer engaged in concentrated ASW operations along the Atlantic coast and Caribbean NATO exercises, a  cruise in 1959, and a 6th Fleet deployment in the summer of 1960. ''Keppler'' entered    for a  (FRAM) II overhaul designed to increase her service and effectiveness. Following the overhaul she returned Newport  and resumed antisubmarine duty  . ''Keppler'' sailed  for a summer midshipmen cruise to Europe, returning to Newport . She was reclassified '''DD-765''' during that period. 
''Keppler'' cleared Newport  to take her station in the blockade during the . While patrolling her Caribbean sector, she sighted a surfaced    and observed her for the next 7 days. On  the submarine joined a Russian trawler, and ''Keppler'' continued her surveillance until the Russian ships turned back toward the . The destroyer returned Newport .
During 1963 and 1964 ''Keppler'' continued hunter-killer exercises along the East Coast and Caribbean. She sailed   for Mediterranean deployment and engaged in NATO exercises en route. The destroyer returned home .
Following overhaul in , ''Keppler'' operated out of Newport until sailing for the Far East  . Steaming via the  she arrived   and pushed on toward  a week later. She departed   for plane guard duty in the . Early in December she was assigned naval gunfire support missions to assist allied troops fighting in , and she also served in  helping to interrupt infiltration of men and weapons into South Vietnam from the North. On the night of 11– she rescued a downed pilot. Early in 1967 she returned to "" for plane guard duty and on  assisted in the rescue of another pilot. In January and February her guns damaged or destroyed 51 Communist s. During this period ''Keppler'' frequently engaged batteries ashore, and  a Communist gun scored a hit on one of the destroyer's gun mounts. She remained in the fight until returning to  on the 23rd. Three days later she headed homeward via the , the , and the Mediterranean. Upon arriving Newport  she resumed operations along the East Coast.
''Keppler'' was decommissioned on   and sold to . Renamed TCG ''Tınaztepe'' (D 355), she was subsequently stricken in  and broken up.
''Keppler'' received two s for Korean service.