.]]
The '''''Jeanie Johnston''''' is a replica of a three   that was originally built in ,  in  by the -born shipbuilder .
The original ''Jeanie Johnston'' was bought by , -based merchants John Donovan & Sons, as a  and traded successfully between Tralee and  for a number of years. The trading pattern was to bring  from Ireland to North America, and then to bring timber back to . 
She made her maiden emigrant voyage from , Co. Kerry to  on , , with 193 emigrants on board, as the effects of the  ravaged Ireland. Between 1848 and , the ''Jeanie Johnston'' made 16 voyages to North America, sailing to Quebec, , and .  On average, the length of the transatlantic journey was 47 days. The most passengers she ever carried was 254, from Tralee to Quebec on , . To put this number in perspective, the replica ship is only licensed to carry 40 people.
Despite the number of passengers, and the long voyage, no crew or passenger lives were ever lost on board the ''Jeanie Johnston''. This is generally attributed to the captain, , not overloading the ship, and the presence of a qualified doctor, , on board for the passengers.
In 1855, the ship was sold to William Johnson of  in . In , en route to Quebec from  with a cargo of timber, she became waterlogged. The crew climbed into the , and after nine days clinging to their slowly-sinking ship, they were rescued by a  ship, the . Even in her loss, she maintained her perfect safety record.
The building of the replica ship began with in-depth research in , and culminated in the completion of the vessel in . An international team of young people, linking Ireland North and South, the United States, Canada and many other countries, built the replica under the supervision of experienced .
The ship was designed by  former Chief  with the  in , England. The recreation project was modelled closely on that of the  ship, the .
The ship is built with  planks on  frames. To comply with current international maritime regulations, some concessions to modernity had to be made. She has two  main engines, two Caterpillar generators, and an emergency generator that is located above the waterline in the forward deckhouse. She is fully compliant to the highest standards of modern ocean-going s, with  water-tight , down-flooding valves, and fire-fighting equipment.  
In 2002 the replica ''Jeanie Johnston'' sailed from Tralee to Canada and the . She has taken part in the  and is currently operating as a  ship. 
Other notable Irish tall ships or sail training ships are the '''', the '''', the ''''(N.I.) and the ''''(I.N.S.).
A wooden plaque is mounted on the foremast listing some of the many people involved in the physical building of the ship. Many people gave time, money and support to the project.
<gallery>
Image:Jeanie Johnston i.jpg|The ''Jeanie Johnston'', moored off Custom House Quay, .
Image:JeanieJohnston.jpg| Jeanie Johnston replica in New York, 2003.
</gallery>