'''Gabrovo''' is a small  lying at the geographical centre of . 
 is the main city of the Province of Gabrovo. Long known for producing  articles and  that earned the town the  of the “Manchester of Bulgaria”, Gabrovo is a charmingly laid-back  place. 
To the , Gabrovo is mainly known as the home of  and , which opened on Aprils Fool’s Day  in recognition of the position traditionally occupied by the town in the Bulgarian humour. People in every country tell  about the supposed liness of a particular community, and in Bulgaria the butt of the jokes has always been Gabrovo. 
A Festival of Humour and Satire takes place in May, comprising ed s, , animated  and the giving of . There are plenty of restaurants in the city itself but the local people will recommend that you go out of town and visit Bozhentsi and the  complex.
Bozhentsi is preserved as an old village . There is an  , , nearby. Strung out along the valley, with its clear bubbling stream and rich bird-life, the Etara complex has the look and feel of a , and even though it is , it is nonetheless convincing and a joy to explore. 
Traditionally  were inseparable from the  (), and the reconstructed bazaar of the type once common in Bulgarian towns forms the heart of the open air museum. Throughout much of the day s are at work here, hammering blades, throwing pots, carving bowls and the like, and everything they make is for sale. Note that many of the artisans leave an hour or so before the complex officially closes. 
Even if your interest in crafts is minimal it’s difficult not to admire the interiors of the old houses, which achieve great beauty through the skilful use of simple materials. Besides s and s, the bazaar includes a couple of places for grabbing a quick drink, including a traditional , and a  selling  and many other sweet treats. 
An hour or so walk southwest from Etara,  perches on a  above the village of . During  times the monks offered succour to Bulgarian  and an assembly point during the  against the Turks in . Nowadays it is a discreet, little-visited place, with rosebushes and  shrubs laid out in a courtyard dominated by an octagonal stone fountain.
Places of interest in Gabrovo province include architectural reserve , Ethnographic Complex ,  and . , a local winter resort is some 22 km away. Hiking is widely available in the . For admirers of historical tourism,  is a must-see.