'''Al Gromer Khan''' is a German-born  player and  whose music spans the multiple genres of , ,  and .
Né Alois Gromer, '''Al Gromer Khan''' was born on April 8, 1946 at farm Hohentann (municipality /Allgäu) in alpine foothills of  between  and Munich. He spent his early years in England, Morocco and , where his father worked in the . Gromer Khan claims that he was drawn to the "mysteries of sound" from the first, be it the sound of the bells worn by the Bavarian cows grazing in the alpine meadows near his birthplace, Indian , the  of  or  the "singing" telephone wires  on the wind in the freezing Bavarian winters. Gromer Khan claims to have rejected the academic or diplomatic careers his parents expected him to take up. 
The 1960s found a twenty-something Al Gromer in  where he took part in a number of creative experiments which were to have a lasting influence on him. According to Gromer Khan, the  of  introduced him to  and pop star  invited him to join in the all-night  he hosted. He explored psycho-acoustic phenomena with film director , and saxophonist  of Ronnie Scott's Jazzclub, who introduced Al to ,  and , while , now , gave him a taste for .
There is no doubt that Gromer Khan's creative encounters during the 1960s deeply informed his musical taste and style; however, Gromer’s ultimate musical awakening came during a trip to India in 1968, at a recital by  Ustad . Gromer Khan professes to have been so moved by the performance that he instantly  decided to devote his life to the study of the sitar. He remained in India, where he was to find a powerful teacher in Vilayat Khan's brother, Ustad . Gromer Khan remained in India for the next three years, speed-learning his instrument at the feet of his . He returned to  in 1971, already an accomplished sitarist.   
Gromer Khan spent the next 10 years studying with Imrat Khan in Europe and India. In 1975, his teacher performed the , thus initiating Al Gromer into the  lineage of sitarists. He was the first outsider to be accepted into this particular , which like most  musical traditions, passes knowledge down the generations from father to son. After his initiation, Al Gromer added "Khan" to his name.
Concurrently, Khan engaged in a number of experimental projects, pioneering the proto- genre called , together with ,  and .
Since 1974, Khan has released nearly 40 albums. He currently resides in , Germany.