The '''Presentation Sisters''' (also known as the '''Sisters of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary''') are women who belong to a family of   inspired by or based on the group founded in  by  in . In the past, the Sisters dedicated their time to creating schools that would help to educate young people, especially young ladies. Most of these schools are still in operation and can be found all over the world.
An Order founded at , , by . In  she entered with some companions on a  for the religious life. With them she received the habit 29 June, , taking the name of Mother Mary of . They made their first annual vows 24 June, . The foundress had begun the erection of a convent close to that which she had built for the , and it was opened on , . They adopted as their title "Sisters of the Sacred Heart", which was changed in  to that of "Presentation Sisters". Their habit was similar to that of the Ursulines. The second superioress was Mother Mary Angela Collins. Soon after her succession a set of rules, adapted from that of , was drawn up by Bishop Moylan, and approved by  in Sept., . This congregation of teaching sisters was raised to the status of a religious order by  in .
Communities from Cork were founded at  in ;  in ; and at  in . A second convent at  was established in , by Sister M. Patrick Fitzgerald; and a convent at  in , by Sister M. Joseph McLoughlan. At the present day, there are 62 convents, and about 1500 sisters. Each community is independent of the mother-house, and subject only to its own superioress and the bishop of its respective diocese. The schools, under the British Government Board, have for their first object the  and moral training of the young, which is not interfered with by the Government. The secular system followed is the "National", superseded, in many cases, by the "Intermediate", both of which ensure a sound English education; to which are added domestic economy, , , , and . The average attendance of children in each of the city convents of Dublin, Cork, and  is over 1200; that in the country convents between 300 and 400, making a total of 22,200 who receive an excellent education gratis. For girls who are obliged to earn a living, work-rooms have been established at Cork, , and other places, where Limerick lace, Irish points and crochet are taught. The first foreign country to receive a Presentation Convent was  in , when Sisters Josephine French and M. de Sales Lovelock went from . There are now fourteen houses of the order on the island and about twenty in the  the first of which was founded at  by Mother Xavier Cronin from Kilkenny in .
In  a house was founded by Mother Josephine Sargeant from  at , , from which sprang two more, one at  and one at . Their schools were well attended; the number of children, including those of an orphanage, being about 1400.  received its first foundation in , when Mother Xavier Kearney and some sisters from  and  established themselves at . Soon four more convents in the presidency were founded from this, and in  one at . Their schools are flourishing, comprising orphanages, and day and boarding-schools, both for Europeans and natives. At Rawal Pindi the sisters do much good work among the Irish soldiers, who go to them for religious instruction. In  Mother Xavier Murphy and some sisters left Fermoy for a first foundation at Hobart Town, , under the auspices of its first archbishop, Dr. Daniel Murphy. There is a branch of this house at Launceston. St. Kilda, , received sisters from  in , and Wagga Wagga a year later, with Mother M. John Byrne at their head. From these two houses numerous others branched forth to all parts of ; there were over twenty convents by , about 500 nuns, and thousands of children attending their schools.
About half a century after its establishment, the Presentation Order sent four sisters from the  convent to , at the request of Dr. Fleming,  of the island. The mother-house is at ; there were () thirteen convents, 120 nuns, and over 2000 pupils. In November, , some Presentation Nuns arrived at  from . Mother M. Teresa Comerford and her sisters had great initial difficulties; but Archbishop Alemany succeeded in interesting prominent Catholics of the city in their work, and in course of time two fine convents were built within the city limits, besides convents at  and . The  destroyed both of their convents in the city, with practically their entire contents; but the sisters have courageously begun their work afresh, and bid fair to accomplish as much good work as in the past.
The Presentation Convent, St. Michael's, , was founded , , by Mother Joseph Hickey, of the Presentation Convent, Terenure, Co. Dublin, with two sisters from that convent, two from , and seven postulants. Rev. Arthur J. Donnelly, pastor of St. Michael's Church, on completing his school building, went to  in  to invite the Presentation Nuns to take charge of the girls' department. The consent of the nuns having been obtained, Cardinal Cullen applied to the Holy See for the necessary Brief authorizing the nuns to leave Ireland and proceed to New York, which was accorded by . The work of the nuns at St. Michael's has been eminently successful. From  to  there have been entered on the school register 16,781 names. In  the sisters took charge of St. Michael's Home, Green Ridge, , where over two hundred destitute children are cared for.
In  Mother Magdalen Keating, with a few sisters, left New York at the invitation of Rev. P. J. Garrigan, afterwards Bishop of , and took charge of the schools of St. Bernard's Parish, , . The mission proved most flourishing, and has branch houses in West Fitchburg and ; , ; and , . The order was introduced into the Diocese of  by Mother M. Vincent Hennessey in . There are now branch-houses at , , , , , , , , and , as well as , . The order came to , , in  under Mother Mary John Hughes, and possesses a free school, home, and academy. St. Colman's, , , was opened in , the sisters having charge of the flourishing orphanage. In  some sisters from Fargo went to , , and since then, under the guidance of Mother M. Joseph Butler, they have taken charge of schools at , , , , , , , and , besides two hospitals. There were () in the United States 438 members of the order, who conduct 32 parochial schools, attended by 6909 pupils; 5 academies, with 416 pupils; 3 orphanages, with 519 inmates; 2 hospitals.<ref>[http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/12397a.htm Catholic Encyclopedia Article]</ref>
Communities of Presentation Sisters exist throughout the world. However, historical and legal factors caused these communities to develop and operate as autonomous groups. A large proportion of these communities are today more closely united within the , created by  decree , .<ref>http://www.pbvmunion.org/about_us.htm</ref> Today, more than 1,600 sisters pursue ministries in education and relief of the poor on every continent.
 is quoted to have said of these Schools:
Presentation Secondary School, Kilkenny
<references/>
[Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary Catholic School Sacramento] http://www.presentationschool.net/