'''Antonio Martínez Sarrión''',  and , born in  () in .
Studied bachelor in  and licensed in Law in the  in . In  he moved to , where he works as a '''government employee''' in the '''Central Administration'''. Between  and  he codirected, with '''Jesús Munárriz''' and '''José Esteban''', ''La Ilustración Poética Española e Iberoamericana'', poetry magazine from which 12 numbers got published.
Figured in the famous anthology of the critic '''José María Castellet''' ''Nueve novísimos poetas españoles'', which confirmed his status as an important poet.
Inside the common antirealistic unrestlessness of the  group, Martínez Sarrión stands out for his sixtyeightist rebellion which made him admire the  poetry and for assuming very early, many of the culturalist, irrationalist, surrealist and mythical references (, , ) that his partners would later adopt.
In his poetry everything is mixed into one poem: the quote of the poet, a conversation, a digression, a memory, a jazz song, all that in a magnificent linking that he achieves to build by means of the break-up of the  forms.
The technique of his poetic work has always been compared to , even though it is different because "the accumulation of images, apparently unconnected, comes from will (...) of expressing the chaos as it is lived. There is no, work about "free associations", but conscious disintegration of "logical associations", (...)".                                          ('''Jenaro Talens''' in his foreword to ''El centro inaccesible''...).
Another side of his work is occupied by memorialism- He published a couple of diaries and a trilogy of memories, that fills his childhood years (''Infancia y corrupciones'', ) (Childhood and corruptions); his university days (''Una juventud'', ) (A youth) and his rise to literary life (''Jazz y días de lluvia'', ) (Jazz and rainy days).
'''Martínez Sarrión''' is a gifted translator of  too. He made one of the best versions in  of ''Les Fleurs du Mal'' (The flowers of evil) by , and translated  too ''Lo que dice la boca de sombra y otros poemas'' (What the shadow mouth says and other poems), '''Stendhal Translating Award''' in . Other authors translated by him into spanish are , , , '''Chamfort''',''' Jacottet''' and .
He participated in several occasions as a collaborator in the spanish TV show ''Qué grande es el cine'' (How great cinema is), moderated by .