'''Meredith Palmer''' is a  from the   ''''. She is played by .
__TOC__
<!-- Overview describes character as of series start. NO SPOILERS. -->
Meredith Palmer is the quiet Supplier Relations representative at fictitious paper distributor . However, during Season One, her occupation was accountant. Meredith is twice divorced and has a  and .
Meredith is an  and complains that people talk too loudly and that the office lights are too bright in the morning. She is even seen ingesting hand lotion for alcohol. Meredith drives a  minivan, license plate CHT-8365 (""), and has custody of her son Jake who has a history of troublemaking, while her ex-husband has custody of their daughter Wendy (whom she calls the "good one"). She is . She is the winner of the "Grace Under Fire" award at the 7th Annual .
In the episode "", it is revealed she had a , and  is somewhat confused as to what this means, believing her to have no .  makes the entire office throw a month-early birthday party for Meredith in "", in hopes of boosting morale and relieving the stress from  rumors, although it was not much of a success, especially because Michael makes fun of her age in one of his many unintentionally offensive jokes, which he prepared and wrote down prior to the party. In a deleted scene, a joke about her hysterectomy doesn't go over well, sending her crying into the arms of coworkers. Her alcohol problems are not revealed in the first season.
When Michael reads what Jim wrote on Meredith's card, he says that she is an accountant but later she is made out to be the 	Customer Relations/Purchasing.
In the second season, the writers gradually introduced Meredith's drinking problem to the viewers, although it is hardly a secret to the rest of the Dunder Mifflin staff, who even take advantage of it to manipulate her. Meredith joins  and attempts to follow through on her s to quit drinking but does not succeed. She has also made another resolution for 2006 that she would stay away from alcohol "during the week." A scene in which a drunk Meredith lifts her top was deleted from "," but the writers were so taken with the idea that they incorporated it into her character.<ref>Flannery, Kate. (Actor). 2005. "Christmas Party" [Commentary track], ''The Office'' Season One (US/NBC Version) [DVD], Los Angeles, CA: .</ref> She exposes her s to Michael in the closing moments of "", and in "" she is briefly seen topless save for a life preserver. Her son Jake is introduced in , where she tells the cameras that it works out perfectly having her son there, because he's suspended from school and this way she doesn't have to hire a babysitter. In a deleted scene from "" she confesses to not remembering men with whom she has had sex while drunk.
 uses her minivan to drive Michael and Dwight to the hospital in "". Dwight, who has suffered a concussion, discovers a flask of liquor under the seat and tries to drink it.
In season 3, Meredith is caught eating 's waterless hand sanitizer (which is alcohol-based) in the premiere, and her excitement over merger-day champagne was quickly quashed by Michael who says the beverages are for "guests only." In the producer's cut of , she recalls a past agreement with a coworker to have sex together on the last day of work, but can't remember who she made the deal with. During a deleted scene from "," Meredith implies that her tendency to sleep around was worth it because she also "got to see the world." She joins Pam and Karen's party in "" because it has alcohol. She declines the margaritas, saying that they are too sweet, and she takes a bottle of vodka. In "" she yells "Shut up, Angela!" when Angela says that a male stripper has no business dancing in the office.  In "," she is seen as a careless driver, with one hand controlling the steering wheel, while the other hand is holding a bag of  over her head, pouring its contents directly into her mouth.  Afterwards, she tosses the empty potato chip bag out the window.  When Pam, sitting in the passenger seat, cautions her to not be a , Meredith replies, "My car, my rules."  In a later scene at the  parking lot, she attempts to wedge her minivan into a parking space too small, damaging several cars in the process.  In "" she accidentally exposes herself to the camera after forgetting she was not wearing her swimsuit underneath her clothes, also in another scene she orders for the bus to stop because she needs to use the bathroom, even though there are no bathrooms in sight, but instead of going behind a bush she instantly squats right in front of the bus which everyone looks away in disgust (except for Creed). In "," she describes Jim's haircut as "sexy-hot" and orders him to turn around so she can see it from all angles. When discussing Jan's breast implants in a talking-head interview, Meredith comments that "in my experience, guys are more interested in the back of you than in the front."
In the first episode of season four, Michael strikes Meredith as he drives into work, cracking her pelvis. The entire staff later visits her in the hospital. Michael bothers her to forgive him for the incident and she initially refuses, but after hearing about the "Rabies Awareness Fun Run" he put together in her "honor", she tells him he's forgiven. Upon returning to the office in the third episode of the season, she approaches Jim Halpert and requests that he sign her cast — which is on her crotch — and tells him in a whisper that she especially appreciated him coming to visit her at the hospital, suggesting that she finds him attractive. Jim signs awkwardly while Creed leers on in the background. During the making of Michael's alternative local Dunder-Mifflin ad, Meredith notes that she is not used to making videos "with so many people around" and she later gives Jim a ride home from work when Pam stays late to work on the ad. In a deleted scene in "Goodbye, Toby", Meredith is introduced to Holly Flax and seems to like her, until she later interviews that she hates her, and "wants to cut her face."