'''Fanta''' is a global  of fruit-flavoured  from the . There are over 70 flavours world-wide; however, most of them are only available by region in some countries.
When Coca-Cola Amatil (CCA), the local Coca-Cola bottler for Australia were branching out their Fanta brand to increase flavours, they looked at their own Kirks brand and adapted the flavours for some of their popular drinks, using them in the Fanta flavours and changing the flavouring in the Kirks products such as Creaming Soda and Pasito.  
In early 2006 the Fanta brand in Australia was revised to focus solely on the growing market for Orange flavoured soft drink. As a result, non-orange fanta products were discontinued and as such the current fanta range available in Australia is:
Orange & Passionfruit and Orange & Mango were introduced as part of this new push, but were discontinued less than a year later.
CCA in 2007 have started to repush their Kirks branded soft drinks, claiming to be of a "Classic" taste that you would remember as a kid, speculating that CCA have returned the previous flavours to the Kirks brand and signaling a non-return to flavoured Fanta.
Fanta is also available as a Raspberry flavour in Post-Mix drink fountains, as well as Frozen Coke branded Raspberry as well.
Previous flavours include:
Fanta Orange is not currently bottled in Canada (but may be available via specialty importers). This appears to be because Coca-Cola bottlers in Canada have distributed '  orange drink in Canada for several years.
;{{Flag|Hong Kong}}
Previous flavours
Fanta has started to phase out the old Danish names on their products in Denmark, giving them new "funky" names in English.
Fanta has started to phase out the old Finnish names on their products in Finland, giving them new "funky" names in English.
As is common Southeast Asia, the sugar content of these flavours are much higher than those of the rest of the world, giving the drinks a much different taste from that of similar flavours elsewhere in the world.
Low availability:
The Japanese word itself is in  on the far left, followed by the , followed by the English translation of the word.  Melon fanta is extremely popular among American service members and their families stationed in Japan. 
In early 2006 the Fanta brand in New Zealand was revised to focus on the market for Orange flavoured soft drink. Coca-Cola Amatil NZ Ltd. made a push back toward their flavoured Schweppes varieties and as a result, have retired their non-orange flavoured Fanta as the company has done in Australia (note: The Schweppes brand is owned by the 'Cadbury Pepsi Schweppes' company in Australia). Raspberry Schweppes instead of Raspberry Fanta continues to be sold at post-mix soda fountains.
Current flavour:
Previous Flavours:
In , it is common to refer to all soft carbonated drinks as ''Fanta''. Beverages which are not part of the Fanta range are also frequently preceded by the word Fanta, for example ''Fanta Coca'' for , and ''Fanta ''.
Actual Fanta is available in the following flavours:
Limited distribution (E.Leclerc stores)
Previous flavours
Fanta phased out the old Swedish names on their products in Sweden, giving them new "funky" names in English.
As common in the south east part of Asia, the sugar content of these flavours are exceptionally much higher than in the rest of the world, giving the drinks a quite different taste compared to similar flavours around the rest of the world.
It is called Fanta Canning's in .
Most Fanta flavours are only available in certain regions of the country, except for Orange, now available nationwide. For many years, Fanta could only be found in some areas as a  (often Fanta Root Beer and Fanta Ginger Ale or Fanta Orange). Fanta Pineapple, Strawberry, and Grape are available in many regions.
<div style="float:left; width:48%;">
</div><div style="float:right; width:48%;">
</div><br clear="all">
In Venezuela Fanta has been renamed by HIT, and it's available in flavors:
Orange
Grape
Green Apple