'''Lazarus Ekwueme''' (born  ) is a  ,  and .  He is one of the pioneer  of  in Nigeria and also a prolific writer.  He is a scholar who has written numerous articles and books on music especially the role of music in the lives of s and Africans in . 
Lazarus Ekwueme was born in Oko, . He attended ,  for secondary education and the , , where he majored in  and was under the direction of .  In London, he earned a total of 10 diplomas in music,  and Drama and he also obtained a bachelors degree from the . In 1962, he obtained the professional teaching diploma, Licentiate of the Guildhall School of Music. 
From 1960-1964, while in , he embraced the theatre, and was an active actor in African films produced by the African Service of the .  He left Britain in 1964, and returned to Nigeria, where he took up a faculty position at the , Nsukka.  As a lecturer of Music composition, Theory, History, Singing and Conducting, he was an important member in the pioneering Nigerian music department at , which was the first to award music degrees in the country.  He also gave considerable attention to choral music, organizing the  Choral Society, a group of foreign and local students who performed regularly in Nsukka. 
In 1966, he went abroad to obtain a post graduate degree in  from .  He also taught at the college and a few other colleges in America.  While at Yale, he founded the  International Chorus.  In 1974, he returned to Nigeria, this time, he was given a position by  at the newly created department of music, at the University of Lagos, and also as a research fellow at the Center for Cultural Studies.  It was while in Lagos, he formed the Laz Ekwueme National Chorale.  A highly respected African choral group. Overtime with experience in musical experimentation, he became one of the few early Nigerian composers to produce a successful musical  of African choral works using western forms and techniques with the result generating wide appeal among Africans, and little difficulties or distortion in conveying meaning of the words being song. <ref>Leslie R. Saunders; Joy Nwosu Lo-Bamijoko, Conversation on African Music, Music Educators Journal, Vol. 71, No. 9, May, 1985</ref>For his effort in music composition and conducting, he was made the coordinator of the Nigerian National  at the Black Arts  Festival,  77. <ref> Citation of Prof Ekwueme, NNMA</ref>
As a music scholar, he explored distinctive indigenous African rhythm and melody in some songs of the New world and American music, a theme that was one of the vocal points of his research efforts.  As a researcher, he spent time studying musical patterns of Africans,  and .  He noticed the similarities in ways in which African Americans in Louisiana sing songs and Africans in Dahomey. Also, the importance and employment of music in cardinal events in the lives of Africans and those in diaspora is a theme prevalent in many of his research efforts.  <ref> Lazarus E. N. Ekwueme, {African-Music Retentions in the New World, The Black Perspective in Music, Vol. 2, No. 2 
Autumn, 1974</ref>