'''Donostia-San Sebastián''' (: ''Donostia'', : ''San Sebastián'', known officially as ''Donostia-San Sebastián'' and internationally as ''San Sebastian'' pronounced in English) is the capital city of the  of , in the , , and locals call themselves ''donostiarras'', both in Basque and Spanish. Its population is 183,090 (estimate), and its 's population is 405.099. 
The city is in the north of the , on the southern coast of the . San Sebastián's picturesque coastline makes it a popular beach resort. Adding to the seaside environment, it benefits from hilly surroundings easily available, ie ''Urgull'' (at the heart of the city by the seashore), romantic ''Ulia'' extending east to , mount '''' rising proud far on the south and ''Igeldo'', overlooking the bay from the west.    
The city sits at the mouth of the river , Donostia having built to a large extent over wetlands of the river during the last couple of centuries, with the city´s downtown and the areas of ''Amara Berri'' and ''Riberas de Loiola'' lying on such terrain and the former bed of the river diverted to its current canalized course (first half of the XX<sup>th</sup> century). 
As a result of Donostia's sprawl in all directions, first into the flatlands shaped by the river  and later up the hills, new districts arose since the walls of the city were demolished in 1863. The first expansion of the old town stretched out to the river's mouth, on the old quarter called Zurriola (a name later given by Council decision to the sand area and the street across the river). 
The orthogonal layout nowadays making up the city centre (the Cortazar development) was built up to 1914 (first phase finished) much in tune with a Parisian Haussmannian style. The arcades of the Buen Pastor square were fashioned after the ones of the , with the Maria Cristina bridge being inspired in the  that spans the Seine. The Estación del Norte train station standing right across the bridge was inaugurated in 1864, just after the arrival of the railway to Donostia, its metallic shelter being designed by .
This is the traditional core area of the city, surrounded by walls up to 1863, when they were demolished so as to occupy the stretch of sand and land that connected the town to the mainland (a stretch of the walls still limits the Old Part on its exit to the port through the ''Portaletas'' gate). The Old Part is divided in two parishes relating to the Santa Maria and San Vicente churches, the inhabitants belonging to the former being dubbed traditionally ''joxemaritarrak'', while those attached to the latter are referred to as ''koxkeroak''. Historically, the koxkeroak up to the early XIX<sup>th</sup> century were largely  speaking inhabitants. Especially after the end of Franco's dictatorship, scores of bars sprang up all over the Old Part, very popular with the youth and the tourists, although not as much with the neighbours. Most current buildings trace back to the XIX<sup>th</sup> century, erected thanks to the concerted effort and determination of its dwellers after allied forces of Spain looted and burnt down the town (1813).
There is a small fishing and recreation port, with two-floor picturesque houses lined under the front-wall of the mount . Yet this houses are relatively new, resulting from the demilitarization of the hill, sold to the city council by the Ministry of War in 1924.
This part stands at the west side of the city beyond the ''Miramar Palace''. It is arguably the first population nucleus, even before the land at the foot of Urgull (Old Part) was settled. A monastery of ''San Sebastian el Antiguo'' (the Old) is attested in documents at the time of the foundation (XII<sup>th</sup> century). At the mid XIX<sup>th</sup> century, industry developed, the nucleus coming to be populated by workers. Industry has since been replaced by services and the tourist sector. The ''Matia kalea'' provides the main axis for the district.
Or Old Amara, named after the farmhouse ''Amara''. It has eventually merged with the city centre to a large extent, since former Amara lay on the marshes at the left of the river Urumea. The core of this district is the ''Easo plaza'', with the railway terminal of Euskotren closing the square at its south.
This city expansion to the south came about as of the 1940s, after the works to canalize the river were achieved. Nowadays the name Amara usually applies to this sector, the newer district having overshadowed the original nucleus both in size and population. The district harbours the main road entrance to the city, with Donostia's central bus station being located between the roundabout and the river. Facilities of many state run agencies were established here and presently Amara's buildings house many business offices. The district is built around the axis of ''avenida Sancho el Sabio'' and ''avenida de Madrid''.   
The district is built on the sandy terrain across the river. The ''Gros'' or ''Zurriola'' beach by the river's mouth bears witness to that type of soil. In the XIX<sup>th</sup> century, shanties and workshops started to dot the area, Tomas Gros being one of its main proprietors as well as providing the name for this part of the city. Gros held the former monumental bullring ''Chofre'' demolished in 1973, on a site currently occupied by a housing estate. The district shows a dynamic commercial activity, recently boosted by the presence of the [http://www.kursaal.com.es/antcatalogo.asp?nombre=2785&hoja=0&sesion=1347 Kursaal Congress Centre] by the beach.  
Egia, stemming from (H)Egia ( for either bank/shore or hill), is a popular district of Donostia on the right side of the  beyond the train station. At the beginning of the XX<sup>th</sup> century a patch of land by the railway started to be used as a football pitch, eventually turning into the official stadium of the local team ''Real Sociedad'' before it was transferred in the 1990s to ''Anoeta'', south of Amara Berri (nowadays it harbours houses). The cigarette factory conjures up the former industrial past of the area, while the building has been made recently into a [http://www.tabakalera.eu/ Contemporary Culture Centre]. Right opposite to this building lies the Cristina Enea park, a public compound with a botanic vocation. Egia holds the city cemetery, ''Polloe'', at the north-east fringes of the district, stretching out to South Intxaurrondo. 
This part (meaning 'chestnut' in Basque) is a large district to the east of the city. The original nucleus lies between the railway and the ''Ategorrieta'' Avenue, where still today the farmhouse ''Intxaurrondo Zar'', declared "National Monument", is sited since the mid-XVII<sup>th</sup> century. The railway cuts across the district, the southern side being the fruit of the heavy development undergone in the area during the immigration years of the 50s and 60s. In addition, further housing estates have been built up more recently beyond the N-1 E-5 E-80 E-70 road (South Intxaurrondo). The paramilitary body  owns a controversial compound and headquarters there (works for new housing under way).
Altza ( for alder tree) is the easternmost district of San Sebastian along with ''Bidebieta'' and ''Trintxerpe''. It was but a quaint village comprising scattered farmhouses and a small nucleus a century ago (2,683 inhabitants in 1910), yet on the arrival of thousands of immigrants in the 50s and 60s a rapid and chaotic housing and building activity ensued, resulting in a maze of grey landscape of skyscrapers and 32,531 inhabitants crammed in them (data of 1970, some 50,000 in 1996). A scheme for the improvement of the area and the construction of a new housing estate (''Auditz Akular'') is under way in the late 2000s.
It lies by the Urumea at the south-east end of the city. It comprises a small patch of detached houses and a main part made of 6-odd floor buildings. The road axis coming from important industrial areas (Astigarraga-) crosses the district heading downtown. Military facilities (home to an uprising in 1936) stand across the river. Attempts by the city council to get them back from the military have been unsuccessful so far.
The district bordering to the south on the town of  comes next to Loiola in the south direction. This part of the city features an industrial area, a football pitch for lower leagues, a disused vocational training building and enclosure as well as a prison, much in decay and due to be transferred soon to a new location, probably in the municipality's exclave of ''Zubieta'', while this option is coming in for much opposition.
Donostia-San Sebastián is the home city of the  club , who have recently been demoted to the La Liga Second División after 40 years in the Spanish top flight. The city's  also hosts  matches featuring . Each summer the city is host to the well known bicycle race, the one-day .
The most important Spanish speaking international  and one of the most important film festivals in Europe is held in this city, the ''''.
The longest, continuously running Jazz Festival in Europe happens the last week of July and features the top musicians from around the world.  The 43rd edition will take place July 22-27, 2008.  [http://www.jazzaldia.com ''San Sebastian Jazz Festival'']
Every year on  (the feast of ), the people of San Sebastián celebrate a festival known as the "Tamborrada".
At midnight, in the Konstituzioa plaza in the "Alde Zaharra/Parte Vieja" (old city), the mayor raises the flag of San Sebastián (see in the infobox). For 24 hours, the entire city is awash with the sound of drums. The adults, dressed as cooks and soldiers, march around the city. They march all night with their cook hats and white aprons with the March of San Sebastián.
The origin of this custom is said to be that Spanish tradesmen, including cooks, mocked the occupying French army during the Napoleonic wars, by aping their daily procession from Monte Urgull to the water-pump at San Telmo. Later, the procession was developed when  donated barrels to be used as drums for the procession.
Adults usually have dinner in ''sociedades gastronómicas'' ("s"), which provide elements of the procession, and which traditionally admitted only males. Nowadays, even the strictest ones allow women on the "Noche de la Tamborrada".
They eat sophisticated meals cooked by themselves, mostly composed of seafood (traditionally , now no longer served due to its exorbitant price) and drink the best wines. For "Donostiarras" this is the most celebrated festival of the year.
After hearing drums all night, children wake up with a version of the Tamborrada for kids. Children dress traditionally as soldiers and march around the city. Children from all the schools of San Sebastián march that day. They have their specific costumes which usually represent a particular country (England, Germany, Romania, etc.)
A festival called ''Semana Grande'' in Spanish and ''Aste Nagusia'' in Basque ("Big/Main Week") is held every year in August. There is a fireworks competition - every night there is a fireworks presentation over the bay and, at the end, a winner is declared.
San Sebastián is known for its Basque cuisine and ''pintxos'' () and restaurant district near the port.
<div class="references-small">
<references />
</div>