'''Hashmat Ehsanmand''', was born into a well educated family in ,  on  . He was a talented kid, with great hidden potential. Based on his high level of intelligence he started to learn how to write and read when he was only four years old. {{Fact|date=February 2008}}
When his father found him capable in learning so, he decided to put him in school before the age of six which was the age required for young children to attend school. But his application to join the school in such an early stage of childhood was refused by the state educational law. However, once he reached the second grade of primary school he started writing . Meanwhile, he was taken to Afghanistan TV by his mother, who was working there at that time, to take part in programs for children. He was then selected by the directors to join Afghan Film and later . He appeared in five Afghan movies before he had to leave his country, because of ongoing civil war which prevailed all over the country. Due to this, he was forced to immigrate to .
He joined a Public School there and later to  for continuation of his higher studies. At the same time, he joined  to learn the fundamentals of music.  adored his voice. He graduated from Jamia Millia Islamia in  and returned back to his home land Afghanistan. His first ever public appearance was a concert for , in , in . He received a warm welcome by the crowds and his heart and emotions were touched by extraordinary applause and appreciation, which he hadn't expected as a very young Afghan singer. Voluntarily he performed quite a few concerts to entertain his poor Afghan fans and to ease the tension of solitude - resulting from the years of separation of their home land Afghanistan - since he arrived in London.
His very first commercial concert was launched on the 19th day of March , which was a great success. Once again his fame spread everywhere and people were eager to get his latest video album. Also his second concert was in London, on the 20th of March . He was received warmly by his fans as expected. His fame was spreading widely around the world, among the Afghan communities, especially in , , , India, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Soon he was invited to the  city of , to perform a live concert. He was surrounded by thousands of his fans and he faced another warm welcome. When he sang the last song of the night to say good- night, the crowd appealed for him to keep going, so he continued to perform to the last drop of sweat to meet the demands of his fans. Later in the month, he had another concert in , as well. He reserved a small hall, thinking that no one knew him, but unlike his personal view, the audiences numbers were steadily increasing, obviously exceeding his low expectations. Best of all the tickets ran out that night, due to high sales.
He was invited to the United States, where he performed two concerts, in  and  in 2000. Later on, he accomplished a tour with  and  in Europe. The first concert was in , which was one of the biggest successes of his life’s career. His second concert was in , Germany  which was also one of his lifetime achievements. A  of the concert will be available, it is called “Tri-stars”. The third concert was in  and as well as in . They were the best performances he achieved during that year for the record. He has five CDs released in the mark.
Mostly he writes his own lyrics, and composes for himself and for others. Presently he is working on a DVD and on two more CDs which he has not decided the names for yet. He also made the music for the film called ''Ayenda''. That was yet another masterpiece among his great works. He signed up with a film called ''Afghan Girl'' with .
So far he has had numerous interviews on different channels in radio and television run by Afghans around the world. Currently he lives in London.