<!--Use {{admin| instead of {{user| if you are a sysop.-->
''' Reviews '''
I've had little interaction with you, other than to have to whack you twice (as you reference below) for your inability to drop a subject when others request that you do so.
Obviously, this leads me to ask ''why'' you seek administrator tools. So far, you have done little or nothing in the way of the tasks administrators are asked to do. Vandalwhacking, XFD and discussion of policy are all at a minimum... In fact, discussion of any sort is at a minimum as it appears you brook little repost if you don't agree with people (cf the deletion of items from your talk page and the above complaint about my actions on your horse carcass beating escapades).
So, what do you hope to achieve from being given two extra buttons and one extra function (protect, delete and block respectively)? Nothing you do so far would seem to require those options, but I could be missing something. Remember, adminship doesn't confer status - good editing over an extended period is the only thing that does.
That said, your block record and your recent clashes don't preclude (or shouldn't preclude) eventual administration tools. Looking at your most recent 1000 edits: you edit in some contraversial areas, so will attract controversy. This is not a bad thing, although your handling of the fallout is something you should watch -  as much as you can at all times; avoid  issues whenever they appear (I advocate taking a deep breath!).
Because your edit field is narrow (again, from the last 1000 edits only) you might like to spend some quality time with the wonderful . He/She/It will give you some articles related to your current editing that will help you push out a bit. I'm generally to be found being in favour of editors (and admin candidates) being specialists - Wikipedia has more generalists than specialists and could use the latter better. But a broader view wouldn't harm and could benefit your growth as an editor.
Finally, policy is good but policy for policy sake is bad. Don't be afraid of  and  now and again. If you're sure you're right (or have right on your side) then remember that it's better to ask forgiveness than seek permission. Don't spend too much time as a policy wonk, using various WP:s to beat people over the head with: other editors may also be being bold or ignoring all rules and you shouldn't try to make them fit arbitary editing patterns (in other words, if you need to cite rules or guidelines in your edit summary, you're probably not editing harmoniously. Don't let that stop you from either activity, but keep a sense of proportion).
There's nothing I've seen from you that suggests you're a bad editor and nothing that I don't like that can't be worked on quickly and easily (well, maybe not that easily... you may have to adapt!). All in all, more good than bad, some things to work on, a lot to be proud of. '''〈<font color="red"></font><font color="red"></font>〉''' 21:28, 5 February 2007 (UTC)
''' Comments '''
''' Questions'''
<!-- If you wish to leave a blank line after your answer to Q1, please start the blank line with # -->