'''Alejo Julio Argentino Roca Paz''' (,  - , ) was an army general who served as  from   to   and again from   to  .  
Julio Roca was born in the northwestern city of  in 1843 into a prominent local family. He graduated from the National College in , . Before he was 15, Roca joined the army of the Argentine Confederation, on  . While still an adolescent, he went to fight as a junior artillery officer in the struggle between Buenos Aires and the interior provinces, first on the side of the provinces and later on behalf of the capital. He also fought in the  against Paraguay between 1865 and 1870. Roca rose to the rank of colonel serving in the war to suppress the revolt of Ricardo López Jordán in Entre Ríos. President  later promoted him to General after his victory over rebel general José M. Arredondo in the battle of Santa Rosa, leading the loyalist forces.
In , during 's presidency, he became Minister of War and it was his task to prepare a campaign that would bring and end to the "" after the failure of the plan of  (his predecessor). Roca's approach to dealing with the Indian communities of the , however, was completely different from Alsina's, who had ordered the construction of a ditch and a defensive line of small fortresses across the . Roca saw no way to end native attacks (''malones'') but by putting under effective government control all land up to the  in a campaign that would "extinguish, subdue or expel" the Indians who inhabited there. This land conquest would also strengthen Argentina's strategic position against .
He devised a "tentacle" move, with waves of 6,000 men cavalry units stemming coordinately from , ,  and  on July 1878 and April 1879 respectively, with an official toll of nearly 1,250 s killed and 3,000 taken as prisoners.
Due to his military successes and the massive territorial gains linked with them, Roca was put forward as a successor to President Avellaneda. In October 1879 he gave up his military career to get ready for the election campaign. When Carlos Tejedor instigated a revolution in 1880 Roca was one of the key figures in the  of the country and the naming of Buenos Aires as the capital of Argentina, settling the question of central rule.
After triumphing over Tejedor, Roca took over the presidency on  . Under his mandate the so called "laicist laws" (''Leyes Laicas'') were passed, which nationalized a series of functions that previously were under the control of the Church. He also created the so called ''Registro Civil'', an index of all births, deaths and marriages. President Roca also made primary education free of charge by nationalizing education institutions run by the Church. This led to a break in relations with the Vatican. Under Roca's rule the economy became state controlled and he presided over an era of rapid economic development fueled by large scale European immigration, railway construction, and agricultural exports. However, financial speculation and government corruption marred his administration. In May 1886 Roca was the subject of a failed assassination attempt.
Roca did not directly participate in the 1890 revolution, which was instigated by  and  (''Unión Cívica'', later ''Unión Cívica Radical''). However, he was pleased in the resulting weakness of . Roca himself had put forward  as his successor, who also happened to be his brother-in-law. However, Celman distanced himself from Roca and reprivatized large sectors of the economy in a corrupt fashion. 
After his first presidency Roca became a senator and Minister of the Interior under . After President  resigned in January 1895,  took over the presidency, during which Roca was President of the Senate. Because of this, Roca again assumed the duties of President between   and  , when Uriburu was ill.
In the middle of 1897 the ''Partido Autonomista Nacional'' party put forward Roca as a presidential candidate once more. Unopposed, he was able to begin a second regular time in office on  . During his second presidency, the so called ''Ley de Residencia'' law was passed, which made it possible to expel Argentina's trade union leaders. During this presidency military service was introduced in 1901 and a border dispute with Chile was settled in 1902. , Roca’s foreign minister, articulated the  of 1902 asserting that foreign powers could not collect public debts from sovereign American states by armed force or occupation of territory. Roca's second term ended in 1904.
<!-- banknote'']]commenting out image with no source/bad FairUse claim-->
In 1912 Roca was appointed as Special Ambassador of Argentina to Brazil by President Roque Sáenz Peña. Roca returned to Argentina in 1914 and died in Buenos Aires on , . His son, , became vice-president of Argentina in 1932-1938.
This article draws heavily on the  in the German-language Wikipedia.