This page occupied the Selected biography space on this portal from construction until July 29, 2007.
'''''' (  &ndash;  ) was a career  officer and a general in the  during the , the officer who yielded to 's famous demand for "unconditional surrender" at the  in 1862. He later served as  of  and was an unsuccessful candidate for  on the  (or "Gold Democrats") ticket in .
''''''
'''''' (''born   in '') was a prolific writer, historian, and General in the  during the , who previously served as  of the . His treatise ''New American Tactics'' advocated making the skirmish line the new line of battle, and was considered revolutionary at the time. His tactics were put into practice by Generals such as  and were later adopted world wide.
''''''
<!-- nonfree image  -->
'''''' (,  – , ) was a noted   and  of the . Foote was born and raised in , the largest city in the primarily agrarian region called the ; he attended the  but did not graduate before entering the  in 1940.
After being discharged from the military, Foote was briefly a journalist. However, he began writing , mostly set in the period surrounding the .  Although he never completed college or received formal training as a historian, Foote's ability to create a realistic portrayal of the  &mdash; factually accurate, richly detailed, and entering into the minds of men on both sides &mdash; led his editors at Random House to invite him to write a short history of the war to appear for the conflict's centennial. 
Foote subsequently wrote a comprehensive three volume, 3000-page history of the , together entitled '''', which is considered by many to be a classic.  The individual volumes include '' to '' (1958), '' to '' (1963), and '' to '' (1974).
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ) was a  general and  officer in the . He led 2,460 troops in a daring raid, called , racing past Union lines into , , and  in July .  This was the farthest north any uniformed Confederate troops penetrated during the war.
After his capture and return from Ohio, Morgan was placed in command of Confederate forces in eastern Tennessee and southwestern . The men he was assigned were hardly comparable to those he had lost on his raid. Nevertheless, Morgan did what he could. However, he was surprised and shot while attempting to escape capture during a Union raid on  on , . (His men charged that he had been murdered to prevent a second escape from prison, but this seems unlikely.) Morgan was buried in Lexington shortly before the birth of his second child.
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ) was an  naval officer who achieved the rank of  in the , and a member of the prominent ; he was the only member of his generation to use a capital ''D''. He served prominently during the  and the , was superintendent of the , and made significant contributions to the modernization of the U.S. Navy. Du Pont died on , , while on a trip to Philadelphia and is buried in the Du Pont family cemetery at ''Winterthur'', near , . 
In 1882, 17 years after Du Pont's death, the  finally moved to recognize his service and commissioned a sculpture of him to be placed in Pacific Circle in .  A [http://www.dcmemorials.com/index_indiv0001621.htm bronze sculpture] of Du Pont by  was dedicated in 1884, and the traffic circle was renamed .  Though the circle still bears his name, the statue was moved to , by the du Pont family in 1920, and replaced by [http://www.dcmemorials.com/index_indiv0001621.htm a fountain] designed by , dedicated in 1921.
'''''' (,  –  ) was the seventeenth  (1865–1869), succeeding to the presidency upon the assassination of .  
Johnson was a  from  at the time of the  of the southern states.  He was the only Southern Senator not to quit his post upon secession, and became the most prominment  from the South.  In 1862 Lincoln appointed Johnson  of Tennessee, where he proved energetic and effective in fighting the rebellion.  Lincoln selected Johnson for the  slot in 1864 on the "Union Party ticket".  As president he took charge of  — the first phase of  — which lasted until the Radical Republicans gained control of  in the 1866 elections. His conciliatory policies towards the South, his hurry to reincorporate the former  back into the union, and his vetoes of civil rights bills embroiled him in a bitter dispute with the . The Radicals in the  impeached him in 1868; he was the first President to be impeached, but he was acquitted by a single vote in the .
'''''' (, -, ), also known as '''Mother Bickerdyke''', was a  administrator for  soldiers during the . At the outbreak of the war, she joined a field hospital at , and worked on the first hospital boat. Chief of nursing under the command of , she served during the . By the end of the war, with the help of the , Mother Bickerdyke had built 300 hospitals and provided medical aid to wounded on 19 battlefields. At Sherman's request, she rode at the head of the  in the  in Washington at the end of the war. After the war, she worked for the  in , and became an , helping Union veterans with legal issues.  She received a special  from  in , and retired to .
'''''' (ca.  &ndash; , ) was the  ridden by    at the  and in many other important battles of the . Born and raised on the western frontier and at the start of the Civil War, the horse was owned by  though his name during this period is unknown. Baldy was variously reported wounded anywhere from five to fourteen times during the war, starting at the , where he was struck in the nose by a piece of an artillery shell. Soon after, in September of , he was purchased from the government by Meade in , for $150 and named Baldy because of his white face.
''''''  (,  &ndash; , ) was a  general during the . Hood had a reputation for bravery and aggressiveness that sometimes bordered on recklessness. Arguably one of the best  and  commanders in the , Hood became increasingly ineffective as he was promoted to lead larger, independent commands, and his career was marred by his decisive defeats leading an army in the  and the .
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ) was a career  officer who served with distinction as a   in the , noted in particular for his personal leadership at the  in 1863. A military historian wrote, "No other Union general at Gettysburg dominated men by the sheer force of their presence more completely than Hancock." Hancock ran unsuccessfully for  in 1880. He was known to Army colleagues as "Hancock the Superb."
'''''' (  &ndash;  ) was a  , fighting in the . Sibley's  was intended to control the  up to  and from there gain access to the warm water ports of ; however, he was forced to retreat after the , when he lost his supply train to an approaching California Union column under Colonel , formerly a comrade in arms in the U.S. Army.  Sibley's retreat to  in 1862 ended the aspirations of the Confederate nation to stretch to the  and utilize the mineral wealth of California. After the war, he served as a military advisor to the  of  before returning to the United States where he died at  in poverty. He is buried in the City Cemetery at Fredericksburg.
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ) was an  statesman and advocate for . He is most famous for serving as the only , leading the rebelling southern s () to defeat because of a lack of soldiers and supplies toward the end of the , 1861-65.  Davis was never touched by corruption, but he lacked the resources and experience to overcome his counterpart , and was unable to defeat a more industrially developed . His insistence on independence even in the face of crushing defeat prolonged the war&mdash;Davis was a strong believer in the rights of the people to "alter or abolish governments whenever they become destructive of the ends for which they were established," noting such in his first .  of  uttered perhaps the most succinct, if not the most unbiased, characterization of Davis when he said the Mississippian was "ambitious as Lucifer and cold as a lizard." After Davis was captured in 1865, he was held in a Federal prison for two years, then released with no charges being brought against him.
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ) was a career  officer and  involved in coastal construction, including several s. He fought with distinction in the  and . During the  he served as a  , rising from command of a  to the . He is best known for defeating  General  at the  in 1863. In 1864 and 1865, Meade continued to command the Army of the Potomac through the , the , and the , but he was overshadowed by the direct supervision of the general in chief,  .
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ), was a  general who gained early fame as the commander of "Hill's Light Division," becoming one of 's ablest subordinates. He later commanded a corps under  in the  before his death in battle just prior to the end of the war. Known to his soldiers as ''Little Powell'', Hill was born in , and graduated from the  in 1847, ranking 15th in a class of 38 graduates. He was appointed to the 1st U.S. Artillery as a . He served in the  and  and was promoted to  in September 1851. From 1855 &ndash; 1860, Hill was employed on the United States' coast survey. In 1859, he married Kitty Morgan McClung, a young widow, thus becoming the brother-in-law of future Confederate cavalry generals  and .
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ) was an American politician and lawyer, who served as a representative in the , as  for , in three successive  posts in the government of the , and as a distinguished  and  in . He was the second  (after  of ) to serve as a U.S. Senator and the first in the Cabinet of a North American government, and had the opportunity to be the first Jewish nominee to the , though he declined the position.
'''''' (  &ndash; , ) was an American  and  who represented  in the  and later served as its . During the , his administration of occupied , his policies regarding  as "s", his ineffectual leadership in the , and the fiasco of  rank him as one of the most controversial "s" of the war. He was widely reviled for years after the war by Southern whites, who gave him the nickname "Beast Butler".
'''''' (  &ndash;  ), was a   and perhaps the 's most highly regarded  and  ranger ( leader). Forrest is regarded by many military historians as the war's most innovative and successful general. His tactics of  are still studied by modern soldiers. After the war, Forrest's reputation suffered from allegations of brutality in the , as well as his role as the first Grand Wizard of the .
'''''' (,  &ndash; , ), was a member of the  from .  He was the powerful leader of the  during the  and .  His biographer characterizes him as, "The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the freedmen during Reconstruction, the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known, even if mistakenly, as the 'dictator' of Congress."
'''Frederick Douglass''' (,  &ndash; , ) was an  , , , ,  and . Called "The Sage of " and "The Lion of Anacostia," Douglass was one of the most prominent figures of  during his time, and one of the most influential lecturers and authors in American history.
Douglass' most well-known work is his autobiography, '','' which was published in 1845. Critics frequently attacked the book as inauthentic, not believing that a black man could possibly have produced so eloquent a piece of literature. The book was an immediate bestseller and received overwhelmingly positive critical reviews. Within three years of its publication, it had been reprinted nine times with 11,000 copies circulating in the United States; it was also translated into the  and  languages. After a distiguished career, Douglass died in his adopted hometown of Washington D.C. He is buried in  in .