]]
A feature of Romanian culture is the special relationship between folklore and the learned culture, determined by two factors. First, the rural character of the Romanian communities resulted in an exceptionally vital and creative traditional culture. Folk creations (the best known is the ballad ) were the main literary genre until the 18th century. They were both a source of inspiration for cultivated creators and a structural model. Second, for a long time learned culture was governed by official and social commands and developed around courts of princes and boyars, as well as in monasteries.
Strong folk traditions have survived to this day due to the rural character of the Romanian communities, which has resulted in an exceptionally vital and creative traditional culture. Romania's rich folk traditions have been nourished by many sources, some of which predate the  occupation. Traditional folk arts include wood carving, ceramics, weaving and embroidery of costumes, household decorations, dance, and richly varied folk music. Ethnographers have tried to collect in the last two centuries as many elements as possible: the  and the  are currently the main institutions which systematically organise the data and continue the research. 
Wood used to be the main construction material, and heavily ornamented wooden objects were common in old houses. In  wood was used to create impressive structures such as churches or gates, in  windmills were made of wood, and in mountainous regions hardwood was used even for covering the roof. To preserve traditional houses many village museums have been created in the last century throughout Romania, such as the  in Bucharest, the  in  or the  in .
<!-- this seriously needs checking! The tense changes in the section on clothing, below, are giving me whiplash! First, certain types of cloth WERE most common... then they ARE embroidered. Certain colors ARE most common, but men WORE white... you see what I mean? I didn't fix it ONLY because I have no clue whether the clothing is still currently worn or has gone the way of the liederhosen. Somebody with the appropriate knowledge NEEDS to fix the next section, pronto! Or at least mention in a note such as this whether the clothing is still worn or not, and if it is, how much it IS worn, in comparision to say, modern blue jeans. -->
 was the most common material for clothing, combined with  during the winter or colder periods. These are embroidered with traditional motifs that vary from region to region. Black is the most common colour used, but red and blue are predominant in certain areas. Traditionally, men wore a white shirt and pants (if made of wool they are called ''iţari'') with wide a leather belt, usually over the shirt, and a vest sometimes made of leather and embroidered. They wore either boots or a simple shoe made of leather and tied around the foot called ''opincă'' and they wore a hat which differs in design from region to region. Women also wore a white skirt and a shirt with a vest. They wore an apron called ''şorţ'' or ''cătrinţă'' which is also embroidered and a headscarf called ''basma'';on special occasions they wore more elaborate outfits. <!--Mabye this could be moved completely to Romanian folklore article when created-->
 and  represent a lively part of the  and there are a great variety of musical genres and dances. Party music is very lively and shows both  and  influences. Sentimental music, however, is the most valued, and Romanians consider their '''' (a sad song either about one's home or about love, composed like an epic ballad) unique in the world.  is considered to be one of the greatest Romanian folk singers and today  and  are two of the most famous musicians. The dances are lively and are practiced throughout Romania by a large number of professional and amateur groups, thus keeping the tradition alive;  is one of the most famous group dances but men's folk dances such as  are extremely complex and have been declared by  to be "Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritages of Humanity".
<!-- do not add a word betweeen "to be" and "Masterpieces". Masterpieces is plural, and the sentence previously includes a plural. It's fine as it is, so please don't revert again and make it ungrammatical!>
<!-- Unsourced image removed: ]] -->
Romanians have had, from time immemorial, a myriad of customs, tales and poems about love, faith, kings, princesses, and witches. Ethnologists, poets, writers and historians have tried in recent centuries to collect and to preserve tales, poems, ballads and have tried to describe as well as possible the customs and habits related to different events and times of year. Customs related to certain times of year are the '''' - Romanian , '''' on New Year's Eve or the '''' custom on the  marking the spring. Other customs are presumably of pre-Christian  origin, like the '''' rain enchanting custom in the summer, or the masked folk theatre or ''Ursul'' (the bear) and ''Capra'' (the goat) in winter.
Perhaps the most successful collector of folk tales was the novelist and storyteller , who, in very picturesque language, shaped into their now-classic form stories like ''Harap Alb'' (roughly, "The White Prince") or ''Fata babei şi fata moşului'' (roughly, "The old woman's girl and the old man's girl")<!-- Is this "girl" or "daughter" here? -->. Also, the poet  published the most successful version of the ballad '''' (''The Little Ewe''), a sad, philosophical poem, centered around a simple action: the plot by two shepherds to kill a third shepherd because they envied his wealth. Another prolific editor of folk tales was , who, in the 19th century published an impressive number of volumes containing a large number of short novels and tales from popular mythology. They are centered around popular characters like the prince '''' (the Romanian ""), the princess , the villain or monster '''' or '''', the dragon '''' or fantastic superbeings like the good '''' and the evil ''''.
Most of these names can be found in Romanian Lore in reference to Vampires and Dragons.
['''Romanian VIP Magazine''']  [www.romanianvip.com] is an interesting reference for who wants to learn about Romania, Romanians, their language, history and culture. Use Google Translation Romanian- English in order to read it. 