, in an 1879 illustration from ''Stories from the Greek Tragedians'' by Alfred Church.]]
'''Pelias''' was king of  in , the son of , daughter of , and of either  or . His wife is recorded as either , daughter of , or , daughter of . He was the father of , , , , , , , and Medusa.<ref>[http://www.maicar.com/GML/Pelias1.html Greek Mythology Link (Carlos Parada) - Pelias 1]</ref>
Tyro was married to  (with whom she had one son, ) but loved , a river god. She pursued Enipeus, who refused her advances. One day, Poseidon, filled with lust for Tyro, disguised himself as Enipeus and from their union was born Pelias and , twin boys. Tyro exposed her sons on a mountain and they were raised by a maid. When they reached adulthood, Pelias and Neleus found Tyro and killed her stepmother, , for having mistreated her. Sidero hid in a temple to Hera but Pelias killed her anyway, causing Hera's undying hatred of Pelias. Pelias was power-hungry and he wished to gain dominion over all of .  To this end, he banished Neleus and Pheres, and locked Aeson in the dungeons in . While in there, Aeson married and had several children, most famously, .  Aeson sent Jason to  the , on Mount , to be educated while Pelias, paranoid that he would be overthrown, was warned by an  to beware a man wearing one sandal.
Many years later, Pelias was holding the  in honor of Poseidon when Jason, rushing to Iolcus (by the modern city of ), lost one of his sandals in the flooded river , while helping someone cross.  In Virgil's Aeneid,  had diguised herself as an old woman, whom Jason helped across the river and then lost his sandal. When Jason entered Iolcus, he was announced as a man wearing one sandal. Paranoid, Pelias asked him what he (Jason) would do if confronted with the man who would be his downfall. Jason responded that he would send that man after the .  Pelias took that advice and sent Jason to retrieve the Golden Fleece.
During Jason's absence, Pelias thought the  had sunk, and this was what he told Aeson and , who committed suicide by drinking poison or were both killed directly by Pelias. While Jason searched for the Golden Fleece, Hera, who was still angry at Pelias, conspired to make him fall in love with , whom she hoped would kill Pelias.  When Jason and Medea returned, Pelias still refused to give up his throne.  Medea conspired to have Pelias' own daughters ''()'' kill him.  She told them she could turn an old ram into a young ram by cutting up the old ram and boiling it.  During the demonstration, a live, young ram jumped out of the pot.  Excited, the girls cut their father into pieces and threw them in a pot. Pelias did not survive. Pelias' son Acastus later drove Jason and Medea to Corinth and so reclaimed the kingdom.  
Pelias is the name of a fictional  who appears in some of the '''' fantasy adventure stories of American author , where he assists the titular hero with his various quests. Inspired by this, a character of the same name also appears in the computer game , if a player of the game chooses to portray a barbarian. The name of a certain Fire Emblem prince, which has thus far been romanized as "Pelleas", may also be derived from "Pelias".