'''Vincenzo Monti''' (,  - , ) was an  poet and scholar.  
Monti was born at Alfonsine, , the son of Fedele and Domenica Maria Mazzari, landowners.  He was educated at the seminar in  and at the , where he studied medicine and
jurisprudence.
In 1775 he was admitted to membership of the Arcadia Academy and the next year his first book was published: "La visione di Ezechiello" ("Ezechiello's vision").<br/>
In 1778 Monti moves to , there invited by cardinal, and papal legate in Ferrara, . He marries Teresa Pikler who bears him a daughter, Costanza,
and a son, Francesco (the latter died only two years old).
In 1797 he leaves Rome and, after visiting  and , finally settles in *, forsaking his former opposition to the  (expressed in the
"Bassvilliana") and becoming a supporter of the newborn . In 1799, he is forced to leave the town when the French are defeated, but it takes him only two years to come back, following the .
While in Paris, Monti devotes more and more of his time to translations from French and Latin, which today are considered to be his best works: he publishes "La Pucelle d'Orleans" by , soon to be followed by the "Satire" by Persio and the "Iliade" () by .
After the fall of  in 1815, Monti tries to win back the Austrian regime with his last poems "Il mistico omaggio" and "Il ritorno di Astrea", before committing to the  development of Italian linguistics during his last years.
Many authors have given different opinions about the poet's value. Two factors are generally agreed upon, but they are given different weight yielding a more or less favourable judgement: the lack of  and authenticity, and the superior technical skills.
In the fast-changing political scenario of his time, Monti appears not to live up to his ideals: he is blamed from the political point of view for being first an opposer to the , then an open supporter of , then eventually a supporter of the . Furthermore he is accused to express insincere feelings in his works and to only care about the formal aspects of his productions.
In a time of strong political ideals such as the  and strong interior passions such as the , famous representatives of
 such as  and  pointed out to these as unforgivable flaws, whereas in their opinion a poet should never give up his beliefs in exchange for practical advantages, and should prefer a worthy content over a much refined literary technique.