'''Edward Asbury O'Neal''' (  &ndash;  ) was a   during the . 
Edward O'Neal was born in , to Edward and Rebecca Wheat O'Neal,. His father was a native of , and his mother was a South Carolinian of   ancestry. O'Neal's father died when he was three months old. After receiving an academic education, including English literature and the classics, O'Neal grauated from  1836 at the top of his class with the degree of bachelor of arts. In 1838, O'Neal married Olivia Moore and they had nine children. O'Neal studied law with  and was admitted to the bar in 1840.
In 1841 O'Neal was elected to Alabama's fourth judicial circuit to fill out an unexpired term and served four years. O'Neal was a strong believer , and advocated that Alabama should secede during the secession crisis of 1860. 
In June 1861, O'Neal was commissioned as a  and commanded three companies of soldiers. Upon reaching  he was appointed  of the 9th Alabama infantry, and was promoted to  in the fall. In March 1862, he was appointed  of the 26th Alabama infantry, and commanded this regiment during the . At the , his horse was killed under him, and he was severely wounded by a shell fragment. He received high praise for his performance at the . In 1863, he commanded  a brigade in ' division, and led it at the  and at the . Early in 1864, his regiment was sent back to Alabama to recruit its depleted ranks but was quickly ordered to , where O'Neal took command of James Cantey's brigade. O'Neal commanded this brigade during the remainder of Gen. 's campaign against Gen. . After Gen.  was given command of the , O'Neal was relieved and served on detached duty for the remainder of the war. He was issued a promotion to ) but the notification informing him of the promotion never reached him.
After the war, O'Neal resumed his law career. In August 1875, he was elected to the Alabama Constitutional Convention and served in that convention as chairman of the Committee on Education. In 1880, O'Neal was an elector on the  campaign for president, and made speeches throughout the state advocating Hancock's election. O'Neal served as the   of  from  to . 
He died in  in . His son,  was governor of Alabama from  to .