The '''Nuclear Energy Board'''<ref>The Nuclear Energy Board was officially titled "''An Bord Fuinnimh Núicléigh''", in the , however invariably the English language title—though unofficial—was used in practice.</ref> ('''NEB''') was an Irish agency charged with developing nuclear power in Ireland.
It was established in Ireland on November 30, 1973 by the [http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/1971_12.html Nuclear Energy (An Bord Fuinnimh Núicléigh) Act, 1971]. The board was responsible in the 1970s for pursuing the policy of developing a  station, which was to be located at , . This policy ultimately failed and the board gradually faded from public attention, eventually concentrating on nuclear-related environmental reports, in any case it was never a large organisation with the  doing most operational work.
In  because Ireland's economic development required more energy production the Electricity Supply Board was evaluating ways of diversifying its electricity generation. The  project had just commenced and this was one of the most prestigious engineering projects since the foundation of the state and the  power station. In the 1970s this need for new energy sources became more urgent, especially after the , in   was established in order to develop  gas field, this find four years earlier initially slowed the nuclear energy project as it was hoped it may be an alternative. However in 1974  was sought for four reactors with  , with one to be built immediately, most likely of  design.
The economic slowdown of 1974 and 1975 again saw the project been temporarily put on hold, but when  became the new  in 1977 the project once again became a priority of government policy, this time the plans becoming more serious and controversial, the government wanted to build a 650  plant at  at a cost of £ 350 million () at the then prices. In 1979 the project was again postponed, with the change in government, as ,  became the new minister in charge of the project. The incident at , in the  was the background to this decision, also  and other groups lobbied intensively against the plans. Finally in 1981 the Electricity Supply Board and the then government announced it was no longer national policy.
Ultimately the board was remembered for plans put on and off hold, and immense controversy. Also there was criticism that the government overestimated the need of energy in Ireland in the future, at one point it was estimated that industry would consume 57% of energy by 1990, internationally this is rather large as 40% is a typical value. However Ireland in the 1970s was regarded as being in a dangerous position whereby 75% of energy needs were met by , and  policy was to reduce this below 50% by 1985, after two .
After 1981 the Nuclear Energy Board was not immediately abolished, instead rather than becoming nuclear  the board became redefined in a new role as an . The board sponsored a number of reports, in particular on the  plant which has long been a source of dispute between the  and the .
Finally on April 1, 1992 the successor to the board was established, the . The production of electricity for supply to the national grid, by nuclear fission, is currently prohibited under [http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/1999/en/act/pub/0023/index.html Electricity Regulation Act, 1999 (Section 18)].
''Nuclear Energy Board Final Report 1973-1992, Dublin 1992.''
<references/>