'''The Quarry Lane School''' is a private  that offers education for students from preschool to their sophomore year in . It is owned by Dr. Sabri Arac, who presides over the school as . Mrs. Meredith Olson currently resides as Lower School (Pre-K through 5th) , with Mr. Samuel Beltran as Upper School (6th through Sophomore year) Director, and Mrs. Liz Paz-Rumore as .
The mission statement of the Quarry Lane School is:
The Quarry Lane School was founded in  by Dr. Sabri Arac as an infant/toddler  and was expanded into an  at its original  campus. In , Dr. Arac opened a campus in  to accommodate the elementary school that was rapidly growing. The Pleasanton campus was open only to preschool students, while elementary students studied at the Dublin campus. In , Dr. Arac opened the second Pleasanton preschool campus, the Pleasanton West campus. After repeated plans to build an additional building on the Dublin campus to support a high school, the  for the construction of the high school in . Though not finished for the next year because of construction issues, in 2007 the newly facilities were opened.  The newest facilities include an indoor gym, three science labs, a computer lab, Art studio, Library, outdoor sports field, tennis court and 33 additional instructional classrooms.  Unfortunately this expansion has placed legal and financial burdens upon the school: there are over ten mechanic's liens on the Dublin property, and the school faces over $5 million in pending civil lawsuits. Quarry Lane School currently offers college preparatory, honors and AP classes.  The School is currently an  Candidate for the 2009-2010 school year.
The Quarry Lane School has been accredited by  and  and was also voted to be the "family favorite" in the Bay Area Parent  Hall of Fame. Students have won awards in the  contest, the , and the  National Word Power Challenge. Over 75% of students qualify as gifted and talented, and over one half of the middle and high school students were on the , with a  of 3.5 or higher.
The Quarry Lane School has a lot of student involvement in the Upper School (grades 6-10). Both the middle school and high school have their own , and  is a required class for the Upper School.
Current clubs include , , , leadership and various other clubs are planned for this school year or the next.
Quarry Lane Robotics offered after school for elementary through high school students. Elementary and middle school students discover robotics and develop their engineering skills using the s NXT robotics system. They plan to compete in a future  (FLL) competition. For middle school and high school students, they enhance and challenge their robotics invention skills using the more challenging VEX robotics kit. In their first year, 2007, Quarry Lane Robotics Team 212 competed in the  in the Northern California Region. Team 212 placed 4th in the qualifiers with a record of 4-1-0, and finished as  Championship Semi-Finalists.
With the new gymnasium, tennis courts, and playing fields, Quarry Lane is planning to expanded the sports program to include , , , , , and  for the Upper School. This year basketball, golf and soccer were offered to the middle school,but only men's basketball is offered to the high school students. Unfortunately, no women's sports are forseen in the near future, as the female student population is still too small to support a sports team.
Leadership is a required class for all Upper School students. Leadership class is currently headed by Mrs. Liz Paz-Rumore, Dean of Students, for the high school and Mr. Samuel Beltran and Ms. Abigail Daane for the middle school. <!--- this sounds like an advertisement, if you think of a better way to say it, change this line ---> Unlike other schools, leadership is not focused only on performing service or leading activities. Leadership, especially for the high school, is more focused on improving one's self and college admissions. In grades 6-8 the goal is to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values.<!---End advertisement ---> In grades 9 and 10, the class is focused primarily on college admission. Students draft a version of their college application essay in this class, learn vocabulary for the  or  tests, and also learn about what colleges look for in an application. Leadership class also focuses on practicing leadership skills by requiring every student to plan and run an event during the year, such as a school sponsored social event or a community service project.
 is a central element to the Quarry Lane Upper School. The student council was designed by students to bring up issues that are bothering them. The structure of the student council has changed over the years, but the high school student council hopes to pass a  this year that will give the council stricter organization than last year.