David James Campbell (born 6th June 1983) is an advertising executive, and founder of  advertising agency, . 
After dropping out from  in 2000, he became a freelance graphic designer before being employed by design firm, Egplant.  
In 2002, at the age of 20, he was appointed General Manager of national Internet Service Provider, E-Access and lead the company until its sale in 2004.  In the same year Campbell saw an opportunity to buy a small design firm, E-Studio, and used this acquisition as a launching pad for his ambition to build a next-generation advertising agency.  In July 2004 he founded  and in 2007 became the youngest Managing Director of an advertising agency in South Australia.
In November 2007, Campbell served as a judge in the [http://www.bandt.com.au 2007 B&T Advertising Awards] in the categories Media Plan of the Year, Media Agency of the Year, and Young Achiever of the Year.
Campbell served a short stint as a director of publicly listed not-for-profit organisation,  Australia Limited before resigning to run as a candidate in the  election.
On 8th of April 2008, David won the category of Online Advertising Campaign in the AADC awards in South Australia for his Adelaide City Council election campaign - Keep Adelaide Alive.
In 2007 Campbell ran as a candidate in the  election, the youngest in Adelaide's history.  He campaigned on the slogan [http://www.keepadelaidealive.com 'Keep Adelaide Alive'] with the goal of getting apathetic young people excited about the election.
His campaign set Australian political history when the State Electoral Office ordered a controversial  video be removed because it breached section 27 of the Local Government (Elections) Act 1999.  The Act requires all election material to include an authorisation statement.  It was the first time an Electoral Office has been asked to make a ruling on whether internet video's should be classed as political advertising.  The story made headlines around the country.
On the October 19 election Campbell was not elected, polling 7th out of 20 candidates running for 5 positions.
In November 2006 Campbell married his wife, Rebecca, in .  He has no children.
<code> </code>