'''Irene Marie''' (born ,  in , ) is a former ,  founder and mother of five.  After her first marriage, Marie's Greek/Austrian mother remarried a pilot for . In 1960 the family relocated to ,  where her stepfather was stationed. Marie attended school in Germany until 1967 when the family was again relocated, this time to , . Marie completed her last year of high school and first two years of college in Beirut.
In 1969 Marie was stopped on the street in Beirut by the producer of a French language variety show. Marie, who had no previous on-camera experience, was cast as the hostess of the television program based on her compelling looks and personality. Shortly after in 1970, Marie was signed by Models International Modeling Agency, one of the top agencies in Paris, and moved to France to pursue modeling. After two successful years, Marie returned to Beirut as a fashion columnist for Le Magazine.
In 1974, Irene met her future husband, Patrick Marie, while on vacation in Miami Beach. Soon after, Patrick introduced Irene to his cousin; the owner of Paris based City Models. City Models was seeking to place a group of their models in Miami, and requested Irene’s assistance in finding a suitable agency. City Models was dissatisfied with the regional scope of the agencies she visited in Miami, and proposed to Marie to open a branch of City Models in Florida. In 1980, City Models Florida opened in  as the first full service ‘on location’ exclusive model and talent agency in Florida.
For the first time a Florida agency was taking an international perspective to the fashion industry. Marie’s contacts in Europe allowed her to persuade foreign photographers and designers to produce their campaigns in Florida, from Palm Beach to the  oasis of Miami Beach. In 1983 the name of the agency was changed to  and by 1988 had outgrown its current location in Ft. Lauderdale. 
Having realized Miami Beach’s potential as a fashion production superpower (unpopulated beaches, vibrant colors, unique lighting), Marie soon decided to move her agency South to the relatively undiscovered . In 1989, Marie was one of the first real estate investors in South Beach to purchase and renovate an original ocean front building. She moved her agency to the former Sunray Apartments (made famous by the chainsaw scene in the movie ) located at 728 Ocean Drive.
The agency continued to grow during the early 1990’s with the discovery and development of talent such as  (, '''', '''', ),  (), Michael Ostheim (, ), Scott King () and Britt Bradford ().
In 1992 '''' listed  as one of the top 8 most successful modeling agencies in the world. In 1993 Marie opened agency branches in Atlanta, Tampa and was the first Florida based modeling agency to ever open in New York. During this period Irene represented the top models in the business including , , ,  and . In 1997 Marie joined the , motivating at-risk young women to live up to their full potential through mentoring.
Over the next decade, Marie continued to discover and develop talent including ,  and . In 2006, Marie along with  launched the hit reality television series '''' which chronicled the lives of 10 models and their relationship with Marie and her staff. In 2007 Marie received the key to the City of Miami Beach in recognition of her cultural and commercial contribution to the development of the city. July 11 was declared Irene Marie Day in the City of Miami Beach.