<div class="boilerplate metadata afd vfd xfd-closed" style="background-color: #F3F9FF; margin: 2em 0 0 0; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; border: 1px solid #AAAAAA;">
<!--Template:Afd top
Note:  If you are seeing this page as a result of an attempt to re-nominate an article for deletion, you must manually edit the AfD nomination links in order to create a new discussion page using the name format of .  When you create the new discussion page, please provide a link to this old discussion in your nomination. -->
The result was '''Keep''', nomination withdrawn. Yes, I realize there were delete votes, but they were for a prior revision, and the article has been thoroughly rewritten since. Non-admin closure.  • <sup>(••)</sup> 20:11, 1 August 2007 (UTC)
Non-notable corporation, reads as promotion. Seems to have been speedied before.  • <sup>((( • )))</sup> 02:38, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
Hi, I'm trying not to sound promotional with this stuff....i want to build a clear page that will illucidate the lineage left behind by the great theatre master etienne decroux.......obviously all of the material that i have gathered that is relevant to put on the page is from the typical laundry list of accomplishments that artists give to news paper reporters....it wouldn't do to try to describe a theatre show that is reviewed in those articles, or the training summary in the Allworth Press book...so i thought it best to use "general information"  about the Adaptors Co.
 02:54, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
'''Salt''' If it were only recreated twice /w the creations being spread out I would'nt say so, But THREE TIMES!?! on the SAME DAY?!?! Especially since wikipedia is not an advertising service.  03:01, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
Sorry.....i've realized that i should have used the sandbox to see how this stuff would look as a wiki page......not actually submitting it...yes, three times, to see how it would look and , "oh gee.....it got deleted again!???!   what the heck???  well,  i guess i'll change some stuff around and try it again."  
i'm trying to get it right this time.......
 03:06, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
Could someone perhaps compare/contrast this article with another of similar content...say, this one:  ...to help illustrate its failings?  BTW, there's more than one person working on perfecting this page, which should help explain the frequency of updates.
 03:14, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
hi, erik, thanks for the reference to Furious Theatre....thats a good point.
 03:20, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
Blatant advertising is defined by Wiki as: "Pages which exclusively promote a company, product, group, service, or person and which would need to be fundamentally rewritten to become encyclopedic. Note that simply having a company, product, group, service, or person as its subject does not qualify an article for this criterion; an article that is blatant advertising should have inappropriate content as well."-  i imagine that there is "innapropriate content" on this page that qualifies it for deletion....could someone please cite an example for me in my article so that i can make some choices about editing?
 03:34, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
okay, i've made some edits in an effort to make the article look less like an advertisement.  this included removing the external link to the margolis brown company website as well as removing information related to the touring history of their ensemble......any feedback would be much appreciated!!
 03:58, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
ok,  I've cited three newspaper articles and a book published by Allworth press as sources...is this sufficient??
The three newspaper articles are DIRECTLY about Margolis Brown Co.... they are reviews of their theatrical productions that include interviews with the artists, chronology of their training and past artistic experience as well as mention of their conceptual approach to creation.  The "Movement for Actor's"  Book is an academic text....Kari Margolis authored the chapter on "Schools of Thought"  in physical theatre...specifically dealing with the theatre ensemble's training methods.  a good read.
your thoughts?
 04:29, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
thank you,  i will work to give notability by putting this article into context with others of a similar nature through citations, etc. 
is there a specific period of time that this debate will continue for before a decision for deletion/validity is made?
 04:41, 27 July 2007 (UTC)
thanks,  i'll plan on using that time to get something accomplished that would help.  i'll search out some other verifiable sources...adding citations to articles of a similar nature....etc.
do you have any suggestions?  i realize the article looks pretty rough and bare naked now....but i suppose that information that is verifiable and as you say "notable" is better than content that looks promotional or "random."
i am going to go to bed now-  thanks for your input and i look forward to any other suggestions you may have.
 04:52, 27 July 2007 (UTC)