Implementing a  into operational environment is the challenging task to prepare some standardized equipment for deployment and tailoring the applications to the special needs of an operator on a single site of operation.
This page on implementing real-time locating systems refers to  according to ISO/IEC 247340 <ref>* [http://www.iso.org/iso/search.htm?qt=iso+24730-1&searchSubmit=Search&sort=rel&type=simple&published=on Real-Time Locating with ISO/IEC 24730]</ref>. Please get informed also with the ''operational task'' section of the  page.
To make RTLS operational, a careful preparatory process of deployment is required. This has aspects with staff and aspects with planning the infrastructure, finally covering the aspects of the operational assessment in coincidence with the installation.
Innovative Technology and applied technical equipment is often subject of adverse feelings of the people involved. This may lead to a queer judgement of suitability. The protagonists and proponents may cultivate an atmosphere of advocating free from feedback. The antagonists and resitiance fighters may do quite the opposite. Care ful information prolicy is required to provent from such fighting. It is a mandatory requirement to make allparies buy in to the solution in full conscience of the problems with and without RTLS.
Many approaches from interested parties are initially monovalent, asking for e.g.
None of these applications solely pays for the infrastructure requirements. Only conjunstion of at least two aspects covered will pay back for the investment. Prospective calculations of an ROI with aspects of security only must be taken with care.
There is no escape, all aspects may contribute to a sound deployment, but not all of them at the same time. It is required that the management and the staff represéntatives do not tangle the interests and work hard to meet in a mutual understanding of a phased introduction of the new system. And there is evidence, that in the end, all aspects will at least be touched, if not fully covered.
A possible strategy is to address the weak targets first: Assets and patients. 
Planning may extend to mapping the propagation conditions in the operational area. Such solutions are available, to compensate partially for a missing travel time metering, e,g, when  is the only means to range.
But even in  or  systems designs, the assessment of propagation is required at least to place the anchor nodes advantageously. Regular patterns for anchor point deployment might please the aesthetic sense of planners, but must not cope with technical needs.
The implementing of any RTLS must be tailored to the specific needs in the operational area and for the support of users of the obtained information. There is no standard solution to serve special requirements without tailoring. That does not require entirely new development for each implementing, but at least some sound parametrising for such implementing.
For the appropriate set of parameters for the implementation the purchaser must take into account the following:
etc.
This bouquet of considerations will lead to a careful phasing of the implementing process. Above all steps the specifying of the various layers and for the diverse aspects of system layout is the key to success.
Normally, an RTLS according to the definitions given with ISO 24730-1 is composed of largely autonomous wireless nodes that communicate to each other. For an RTLS solution the interface to other networks is not mandatory, but for advantage of the using application, any RTLS has a link to another network to enable access to data bases. However, for locating an object or a person, some reference requirements must be fulfilled, where it does not require any further infrastructures. 
Some common features of RTLS infrastructure requirements may be:
Some RTLS systems in the market provide excellent accuracy for locating moving nodes, i.e. the objects or individuals bearing an RTLS locator. However, a fair comparison of systems should take into account, at which expense such accuracy is obtained. Digging holes in the floor, wiring walls with copper or spinning densely meshed nets of reference nodes under ceilings may appear as reasonable for steady implementation, but this is contradictory to any rapid deployment requirements.
RTLS is a mature technology. However, the quantities in production are still on the rise. This rules also the integrating of functions with chips. Most of the solutions offered are well contained hardware developments, however the degree of integration varies. This is at stake for the cost of any deployment. The better the integration is elaborated, the lower the cost for the transponders will be. This applies as well to all types of transponders: For fixmount operation, for personal carriage and for application to dead property. On the other hand, price is not the absolute measure, the balance between benefit and cost rules whether transponders are economised. However, chip integration as well rules the power consumption in operation. This again has to be balanced, as functions like active ranging always consume more power than just passive receiver operation.
Normally in advanced wireless communications systems, the communicating units on air are autonomous wireless nodes. That feature of autonomous operation describes the advantage that basically and beyond unconditionally required knowledge for direct addressing no administering is required. 
An easy approach is unilateral broadcasting to start a polling process, but this invites unwanted parties. However, for exclusion of unauthorized third party nodes and inclusion of nodes for membership in a local network, at least some identification and some exchange on encryption is recommended to keep unauthorized intruders apart. Such enrollment procedures may be performed with any node that has the knowledge of accepted addresses, additional identification and passwords along with required encrypting. Otherwise any node would be able to interfere with the members of the network.
Lesser advanced systems may have limitations in the following aspects:
Such RTLS implementations do not comply with the referred standards according to ISO/IEC 24730.
Normally, any RTLS may use its specially designed set-up of channels in any available ISM wireless communications band. However, some aspects recommend the choice of a band and bandwidth that may support just the locating and some communications functionality beyond and without impact to other already existing infrastructures. There is an approach to an RTLS which is compatible with other users in the same ISM band and which is currently in the process of standardization. This approach is capable of locating and communicating in dense populations and with reasonable channel capacity: The proposal is under discussion in ISO/IEC DIS 24730-5 Information technology real-time locating systems (RTLS) Part 5. This standard proposal is taking the basing IEEE 802.15.4aCSS standard as a specification for communications (promoted through Nanotron Berlin, Germany, www.nanotron.de, and Orthotron, Seoul, Korea, www.orthotron.com) as a platform. 
This communications approach led with the manufacturing of Nanotron to an industrially designed chip-set (nanoNET NA5TR1) including a metering engine on the basis of symmetric TOA on a homogenous link. These chips are ready for implementing in general wireless systems as well as for RTLS implementation with making use of the WLAN channel scheme according to IEEE 802.11 and thus enabling proper coexistence of WLAN networking with RTLS locating in the very same area.
The competing requests from any nodes in any ad hoc advanced network or any administered legacy network create collisions. The mandatory requirement is a proper strategy for avoiding collision or at least live with the competition and be effective. The basic issue for any RTLS implementation is the capability to provide metering beyond anti collision procedures. The secondary issue is to enable communication beyond metering. Both are tasks before coping with the population challenge.
The solution may not be just a deterministic approach.
Granularity of the RTLS deployment is not just a question of resolution and accuracy, but also a parameter for coexistence of adjacent vertices. The capability of an RTLS to cope with high density of nodes supersedes the accuracy requirement. In case of two RTLS node bearers adjacent to each other, the accuracy of locating each of both might degrade somewhat. But an effect that the locating function might fail due to close vicinity of two or more bearers should be taken as a hard disqualification criterion.
The option to locate an object implies the need to power the unit to be located on the move. This limits the available functions with the moving node. Despite the locating of vehicles there is no power line with moving persons or dead objects. 
However, the production lots and the preparations to integrate functions with a processor platform limits the reach of battery. Consider the following nexus of constraints:
Generally, taking any actual design of cell net phones with an integrated GPS function as a comparable reference, the locating should be comparable in operational availability. But, this is the target for product development on mid term. Do not forget the design history in the last two decades to arrive at the functional complexity of cell net phones of today.
The locating engine is a part of an RTLS providing the computing of location from Measurements. Generic details see under .
Generally with moving nodes the validity of location data is limited to the motion characteristics of the nodes
located. Hence the quality of the systems approach is related to the dynamics behaviour of the respective systems
layout.
Users of wireless systems and of navigational aids will know in detail the effects of any obstacles to direct sight and any interference of more than two transmitters etc. The cardinal quality measure for any such condition is the latency time to cope with relocation of any object. Latency is the sum of times from request through reaction till availability of an answer with the requester.
The first proper locating with an RTLS should be ready for display in much less than a minutes time. 
However, such quality metrics should be independent of any supporting system, as inertial measurements, track extrapolations or optical system aids. All of such options are welcome to improve an RTLS system performance, but they should not be taken into account when comparing different RTLS solutions.
Mobile nodes on the move may change their location without prior notice. They even may change their direction
without prior notice. Hence the quality of the location data has to take into account the dynamics of the motion
in terms of covered distance and of current angular velocity
User requirements often start with precision. As an RTLS is an operational means and no gauging tool, this aspect must be carefully balanced between benefit and cost. Dealing static precision as a primary issue is just dumb, as an RTLS is designed for dynamic purposes. The key parameter is dynamic precision with respect to operational challenge. An RTLS solution properly supporting decisions on the move is the design aim. However, momentary locating errors may infer pretension of correctness all time.
An excellent RTLS will serve the user with an accuracy in the range of his very own dimensions. That may be in the case of individuals an accuracy of about .5m or 2ft (area) down to 2m or 6ft (height). A reasonably good RTLS will serve the user with an accuracy not lesser than a multiplicity of his very own dimensions in the range of about 1.5m or 5ft (area) down to 4m or 12ft (height). 
These error margins provide proper support for typical operational requirements:
To obtain benefit with any RTLS implementation and with full deployment, the demand for high accuracy should not encumber the balance of cost and benefit. An RTLS will not replace a measurement subsystem for dynamic positioning or any topographic or geodesic metering.
The essence of RTLS design beyond metering is filtering. As in all measuring systems, erroneous results superpose the wanted correct metering. This starts with noise, followed by statistical errors and ends in heavily threatening multi path propagation. There are several approaches possible to defeat these errors. Thriving for accuracy may be performed at the expense of resolution, of latency times till availability or of stability of the results.
As outlined: Multipath propagation is ubiquitous with wireless transmission. There is no escape to prevent from multiple reception and resulting response to any transmission. Thus, for an RTLS the multipath propagation is a burden in the metering process. Therefore strategies to assess the response is indispensable. Such strategies apply in subsequent steps:
This list may be extended for the purpose of the operational task. Another escape is hybridization of the system to enable stronger start-up conditions and to provide supporting external sample points. Finally, the solution may not be just a deterministic approach.
Mathematical modeling is a prerequisite for an RTLS providing the computing of location from Measurements. Details see under Locating Engines. The other aspect is the mathematics based model of operation, addressing not the locating process, but the wrapping of the obtained coordinates with the operational context.
To apply any RTLS system must address some requirement to make information available on the spot. It makes no sense to deploy any RTLS, when the Real-Time aspect does not drive the choice. In function, RTLS shows many resemblance to location based services of mobile phone networks. Such typical application may be 
This list may be extended upon relevant requirements.
An RTLS is not a radio detection and ranging system, but an autonomously operating and functionally cooperative system of basically equal nodes. Therefore there is no central scanner function nor any central processing instance nor any otherwise specialized RTLS node to receive, collect and compute data in the locating process for any other node beyond itself. As well there is no specialized higher qualified reader function nor any lower qualified and dumb beacon function.
As the object to be located in logistics applications normally is the means to transport objects of varying identity, the identifying of the objects transported must coincide with the locating of the transporting means. This requires other independent systems deployed that shall cooperate with the RTLS support at least on informations systems level.
Basically any RTLS node shall obtain its own location in a cooperative measurement process and hence shall be capable to compute its own location with its own local resources. Additionally any other RTLS node shall be capable to receive the readily computed information from other nodes on location of these and further nodes. However, it may depend on the user requirements, which nodes will be excelled with signaling and display capabilities to support the defined operational tasks with the RTLS usage.
For the sake of an economized systems operation, the qualification of the wireless nodes in an RTLS implementation may differ to serve for distinct roles:
Special fine tuning of network configurations may be possible to reduce the effort in resources tailored to the defined operational task. This may apply to permanent or temporal deployment as well as to the spatial distribution aiming at the line of sight conditions.
A basic application for RTLS is the locating of nodes that normally should not move. Recurrently locating such nodes then simply confirms each node being in the determined place and in function. Such control may be achieved with active RFID as well as far as the resolution and stability for the actual location were of no importance. In any other case the 3D locating capability of RTLS with distance metering and locating engine trumps any RFID with bare RSSI capability.
As far as budgeting is sound and design is balanced, an RTLS shall be aligned with other systems yet deployed.
The RTLS systems is just designed to provide a locating capability that may be:
Normally, a user of an RTLS will be happy just to make use of the special functions of such system under any roofing or other confinement of operation. Additionally for any temporal deployment and for various operational conditions in open air, a hybrid solution may offer new versatility that will not be addressed by any purely satellite based function.
For the user of any RFID labeling solution, there may be full satisfaction with identifying any object right in the scope of a manually held reader or with a fix-mount reader. 
But in general, the complex event of identifying objects by means of any tool requires five, at least three data:
The latter term of location is mostly neglected, when RFID readers are operated in confined environment. But, to satisfy the perpetuate desire for maximum reach, the question is important, where the object moved or stood in the moment of identifying it. However, this aspect will gain momentum in mid-term, as RFID is still mostly competing with bar-coding or 2D-coding. Besides the basic issues, the RTLS function generally requires power source on the object, so RTLS is not low-cost approach compared to labeling.
Tracking and tracing as concurrent or posterior computing of a trajectory covers the dynamic aspects of RTLS processing. The aim of ranging and locating is somewhat spontaneous, whereas the track or trace serves protracted interests of motion control.
Any information about momentary or temporary location of an object or a person may be collected to form a track or just to trace the instance or the individual. This in effect simply indicates the need to prove willful acceptance of services through the client under any RTLS control as deemed mandatory with any other location based service focusing individuals in wired or wireless networks. Unauthorised or otherwise impermissible tracking or tracing people with any technical means without such willful agreement will surely lead to dismissal of such services with the community affected.
In industrial environment ordinary tasking covers fulfilment of planned and scheduled operations. Thus in industry any spontaneous locating will mostly not be the key interest. This coincides with the systematic weakness of real time locating, where knowledge about a steady motion may support well the computing of actual locus.
In any emergency or military environment however, there is a tendency to ask for spontaneous determining of an unknown locus, added with the requirement to perform as well on unknown territories or in confinements without any available maps. This appears as a completely different task concerning a supporting infrastructure.
Any RTLS system implementation will make use of a priori knowledge about locations of nodes, i.e. all available information about residing nodes or other nodes that disclose their positions. Such information may be just the address for networking  and may comprise properly surveyed locations of reference nodes. This a priori knowledge is complimentary to all knowledge yet obtained in operation and compiled in tracks.
Tracing is understood as elaboration off-line from recorded data and therefore never operated in real time. However, tracing makes use of data collected by means of tracking procedures. The actual tracking of nodes may contribute to collecting data for a trajectory in a data base and may then be presented in plots with underlaid maps or drawings. 
The anchor nodes in such tracking data sets may be
The trajectories of the traveling nodes may be recorded with a composite data set of locations of touched nodes and intermediate metering results.
To be prepared to segregate corn and husk, there must be an appropriate specification form the very beginning. The interested operating party must set out its own demand. This may be answered by the offering manufacturing party with an appropriate test scenario, that will show the capabilities of the RTLS under test. However, the potential purchaser should stress his brain to identify the critical conditions, which he deems important for operational success, as there are:
RTLS shall be capable to derive locating on the fly, en passant, on the move and during performing. This results in some local display of vicinity and adjacencies. Presentation of results is the minimum output of any RTLS. This may be provided for moving entities or for any observer in the area of operations or apart from there.
The RTLS user gets the location of himself or of the objects under control
The displaying of such information is performed visually on a map or in other graph. Alternatively the change of location may be indicated aurally with sound signals.
The applicability of RTLS for operational tasks is bound to the stability of the location depicted. It is neither an advantage to get a false information about location, which may appear in real time but with no real quality, nor may an unstable result support operations, i.e. spontaneous erratic jumps with every update, when the user cannot recognize the computed location as steady.
Having read till this passage, please feel free to contribute to a knowledge poll on RTLS with this link:
[http://www.surveymonkey.com/s.aspx?sm=Uf9gZSOt8kZt8RC_2bdl09qA_3d_3d| Click here to take a survey] The survey is composed to show some alternative features for an RTLS in direct confrontation and not to put a burden on clarity of explanations here.
Beyond local presentation, the common requirement with locating RTLS nodes is some feedback to those monitoring systems and persons in charge that control the work orders. The RTLS system shall be capable to report locations of moving objects in conjunction with some data transfer to the destination of this reports. However, many of the systems designed in the past do not support such data transfer in the very same communications link. As with GPS operating just in downlink, normally data reporting is transmitted via Cellnet. This leads to the following alternatives for RTLS nodes:
The respective variety applies for the feedback with any type of moving RTLS nodes:
The scope and complexity of possible applications determine an unlimited plurality of options. The RTLS concept does not constrain respective operational designs.
All additional references within Wikipedia and external references on the Internet may be found on the  page.