'''Proclamation of Ukrainian Statehood'''
On June 22, 1941  attacked the . On Monday June 30, 1941 after the German troops occupied , a meeting was held in Lviv where members of the  proclaimed Ukrainian independence. The proclamation, despite reflecting the aspirations of the Ukrainian people, did not reflect the views of the German regime and was quashed within a few days and the interim Ukrainian administration was arrested.
 in his memoires states:
On Monday June 30, at 6 p.m. on the second floor of the  building in  (Rynok square 10) there was a community meeting. Community members of the Lviv and its environs, clergy, leading members of OUN, and members of the Ukrainian underground. The all was overflowing with delegates. The meeting was called by the first assistant to the leader of the OUN  to honour the Ukrainian fighters who had laid down their lives fighting for Ukraine. In an intensive speech he spoke about the  political situation which Ukraine was in with the declaration of war, stating that once again this war will take place in Ukraine over these rich lands and that the Ukrainian people cannot stand idly by but must be active and participate. Regarding Germany he stated that a Union with Germany was only possible if Germany recognized Ukrainian independence and its government. Stetsko read out the Proclamation of Ukrainian independence. Those present listened to the proclamation standing, unanimously endorsed it and sang the  "Shche ne vmerla Ukraina".<ref>(In Ukrainian: Ukrainska Povstanska Armiya - Istoriya Neskorenykh - Lviv, 2007 p.29</ref>
'''The Act of Proclamation of Ukrainian Statehood'''
1. By the will of the Ukrainian people, the  under the direction of  proclaims the formation of the Ukrainian State  for which have laid down their heads whole generations of the finest sons of Ukraine.
The Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, which under the direction and founder and leader  has undertaken in the past ten years a bloody battle with the Moscovite-Bolshevik enslavers in an energetic battle for freedom, calls all the Ukrainian people not to place down its weapons until on all Ukrainian lands are united to form a Sovereign Ukrainian Government.
The Sovereign Ukrainian Government will guarantee Ukrainian people order, unilateral development of all its energies and all its needs.
2. In the western lands of Ukraine a Ukrainian Government is formed, which is subordinate to the Ukrainian National Government that will be formed in the capital of  – .
3. The newly formed Ukrainian state will work closely with the National-Socialist Greater Germany, under the leadership of its leader  which is forming a new order in  and the world and is helping the Ukrainian People to free itself from  occupation.
The  which has been formed on the Ukrainian lands, will continue to fight with the ALLIED GERMAN ARMY against Moscovite occupation for the sovereign and united State and a new order in the whole world.
Long live the Ukrainian Sovereign United Ukraine! Long live the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists! Long live the leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian people – STEPAN BANDERA<ref>From the front page of the Newspaper "Samostiyna Ukraina" published in Stanislaviv, July 10, 1941</ref>.
GLORY TO UKRAINE!
After the proclamation of the Ukrainian independence the Ukrainian state had been restored and a provisional government was formed with the following composition: 
A Council of Seniors headed by  as president was also formed.<ref>''The Restoration of the Ukrainian State in World War II''. Published by Ukrainian Central Information Service, London 1987. ISBN 0-902322-35-4.</ref>
The act of proclamation was soon broadcasted by  over the radio in , which probably made many to believe it was supported by the advancing German troops. But the act got immediate support from several Ukrainian church officials such as Metropolitan Archbishop  of the , Metropolitan Bishop  of the  and Bishop  .
An SS Einsatzgruppe arrived in  three days after the act of proclamation but waited until July 9 before they went into action and put  and his deputy  in ''honorary arrest'', but on July 12 they were arrested. At the same time  with several other Ukrainian nationalists were arrested in the . They all were assembled to Berlin where the Germans tried to convince them to withdraw the act of proclamation, but with no success. On September 15 they were dispatched to the . At the same time  arrested hundreds of other Ukrainian nationalists who had participated in the process of restoration of the Ukrainian state.<ref>''The Restoration of the Ukrainian State in World War II''. Published by Ukrainian Central Information Service, London 1987. ISBN 0-902322-35-4. John Alexander Armstrong, ''Ukrainian Nationalism'', , 1963.</ref>