 and . Published in 1932 by the Benno Schwabe & Co. publishing house.]]
'''Jan Tschichold''' (  ,  &ndash;   , ) was a , book designer, teacher and writer.
Tschichold was the son of a provincial , and he was trained in . This  background and calligraphic training set him apart from almost all other noted typographers of the time, since they had inevitably trained in  or the s. 
Tschichold's artisan background may help explain why he never worked with handmade papers and custom fonts as many typographers did, preferring instead to use stock fonts on a careful choice from commercial paper stocks. After the election of  in Germany, all designers had to register with the Ministry of Culture, and all teaching posts were threatened for anyone who was sympathetic to . Armed  arrested him and his wife in , and  posters were found in his flat, casting him under suspicion of collaboration with communists. All copies of Tschichold's books were seized by the  ''"for the protection of the German people"''.{{Fact|date=April 2007}} After six weeks a policeman somehow found him tickets for , and he and his family managed to escape Nazi Germany. Apart from short visits to  in - (at the invitation of the ), and - (at the invitation of , the British typographer, with whom he worked on the design of ), he lived the rest of his life in Switzerland.
''' used in book design to divide a page in pleasing proportions, was popularized by Jan Tschichold in his book ''The Form of the Book.'']]
: "Page proportion 2:3. Margin proportions 1:1:2:3. Text area proportioned in the Golden Section."<ref> Ibid. Tschichold, pp.43 Fig 4. "Framework of ideal proportions in a medieval manuscript without multiple columns. Determined by Jan Tschichold 1953. Page proportion 2:3. margin proportions 1:1:2:3, Text area proportioned in the Golden Section. The lower outer corner of the text area is fixed by a diagonal as well."</ref>]]
Tschichold had converted to  design principles in  after visiting the first   exhibition. He became a leading advocate of Modernist design: first with an influential  magazine supplement; then a  personal exhibition; then with his most noted work ''Die neue Typographie''. This book was a manifesto of modern design, in which he condemned all fonts but  (called 'Grotesk' in Germany).  He also favoured non-centered design (e.g., on title pages), and codified many other Modernist design rules.  He advocated the use of standardised paper sizes for all printed matter, and made some of the first clear explanations of the effective use of different sizes and weights of type in order to quickly and easily convey information. This book was followed with a series of practical manuals on the principles of  which had a wide influence among ordinary workers and printers in Germany. Yet, despite his visits to England just before the war, only about four articles by Tschichold had been translated into English by .
Although ''Die neue Typographie'' remains a classic, Tschichold slowly abandoned his rigid beliefs from around  onwards (e.g. his Saskia typeface of 1932, and his acceptance of classical Roman typefaces for body-type) as he moved back towards  in print design.{{Fact|date=April 2007}} He later condemned ''Die neue Typographie'' as too extreme. He also went so far as to condemn Modernist design in general as being  and inherently ic. 
Between - Tschichold lived in England where he oversaw the redesign of 500 s published by , leaving them with a standardised set of typographic rules, the ''Penguin Composition Rules''.<ref>{{cite web
  |url=http://www.dis.uia.mx/conference/HTMs-PDFs/PenguinBooks.pdf 
  |title=Jan Tschichold at Penguin Books
  |author=Richard Doubleday
His abandonment of Modernist principles meant that, even though he was living in Switzerland after the war, he was not at the centre of the post-war Swiss .
 in setting the Washburn College Bible.]]
Between  and , he designed a "universal alphabet" to clean up the few multigraphs and non-phonetic spellings in the German language. For example, he devised brand new characters to replace the multigraphs "ch" and "sch". His intentions were to change the spelling by systematically replacing "eu" with "oi", "w" with "v", and "z" with "ts". Long vowels were indicated by a  below them, though the  was still above. The alphabet was presented in one typeface, which was  and without capital letters.
Typefaces Tschichold designed include:
Sabon was designed to be a typeface that would give the same reproduction on both  and  systems. It was used early after its release by  to set the  Bible. A "Sabon Next" was later released by Linotype as an 'interpretation' of Tschichold's original Sabon.
<references />