 ()]]
'''Nemesis''' (in , '''{{Polytonic|Νέμεσις}}'''), also called '''Rhamnousia/Rhamnusia''' ("the  of "), at her sanctuary at , north of , in  was the spirit of divine  against those who succumb to , vengeful fate personified as a remorseless goddess. The name ''Nemesis'' is related to the  word ''νείμειν'', meaning "to give what is due". The  equated the Greek Nemesis as '''' ([http://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/bmcr/2003/2003-12-28.html Aronoff 2003)].
Nemesis is now often used as a term to describe one's worst enemy, normally someone or something that is the exact opposite of oneself but is also somehow similar. For example,  is frequently described as the nemesis of . 
Inexorable divine retribution is a major theme in the Hellenic world view, providing the unifying theme of the  of  and many other literary works. In some metaphysical mythology, Nemesis produced the egg from which hatched two sets of twins:  of  and , and the ,  (Kástor) and  (Polydeúkes).
The only sense in which ''nemesis'' is used in  is as an abstract .  states: "Also deadly  bore Nemesis to afflict mortal men." ('''', 223, though perhaps an interpolated line). Nemesis appears in a still more concrete form in a fragment of the epic ''''.  
She is the implacable executrix of justice: that of  in the  scheme of things, but it was clear she existed before him, for her images look similar to several goddesses like , ,  and .
As the "Goddess of Rhamnous", Nemesis was honored and placated in an archaic sanctuary in the isolated district of Rhamnous, in northeastern . There she was a daughter of , the primeval river-ocean that encircles the world.  noted her iconic statue there. It included a crown of stags and little  and was made by  after the  (), crafted from a block of   brought by the over-confident Persians, who had intended to make a memorial stele after their expected victory.
The word ''Nemesis'' originally meant the distributor of fortune, neither good nor bad, simply in due proportion to each according to his ; then, ''nemesis'' came to suggest the resentment caused by any disturbance of this right proportion, the sense of justice which could not allow it to pass unpunished.  (1906) and others connect the name with "to feel just resentment". From the fourth century onwards, Nemesis, as the just balancer of 's chance, could be associated with . 
)]]
 of , struck at  AD 136.]]
In the  Nemesis appears chiefly as the avenger of crime and the punisher of , and as such is akin to  and the . She was sometimes called , probably meaning "one from whom there is no escape"; her epithet ''Erinys'' ("implacable") is specially applied to Demeter and the n mother goddess, .
A festival called  (by some identified with the ) was held at . Its object was to avert the nemesis of the dead, who were supposed to have the power of punishing the living, if their cult had been in any way neglected (, '','' 792; , ''Psyche,'' 1907, i. 236, note I).
At  there were two manifestations of Nemesis, more akin to  than to Artemis. The reason for this duality is hard to explain; it is suggested that they represent two aspects of the goddess, the kindly and the implacable, or the goddesses of the old city and the new city refounded by Alexander. The martyrology ''Acts of '', set in the "" of AD 250&ndash;51, mentions a lapsed Smyrnan Christian who was attending to the sacrifices at the altar of the temple of these Nemeses.
Nemesis has been described as the daughter of  or , but according to  she was a child of  and . She has also been described as the daughter of Nyx alone. Her cult may have originated at .
 (sometimes called ''Pax-Nemesis'') was also worshipped at  by victorious generals, and in imperial times was the patroness of s and of the ''venatores'', who fought in the arena with wild beasts, and was one of the  deities of the drilling-ground (''Nemesis campestris''). Invidia was sometimes, but rarely, seen on imperial coining, mainly under  and . In the  there is evidence of the belief in an all-powerful ''Nemesis-Fortuna''. She was worshipped by a society called Hadrian's freedman. The poet  wrote a hymn to Nemesis in the early 2nd century CE, where he addressed her
and mentioned her "''adamantine bridles''" that restrain "''the frivolous insolences of mortals''." [http://www.liminalityland.com/citharode.htm].
In early times the representations of Nemesis resembled Aphrodite, who herself sometimes bears the epithet Nemesis. Later, as the maiden goddess of proportion and the , she has as attributes a  (), a , , a  and a , and rides in a  drawn by s.