'''Holmfirth''' is a small town located on the A6024 Woodhead Road in the  , in the  borough of , . Centered upon the confluence of the  and the , Holmfirth is six&nbsp;miles (10&nbsp;km) south of , and broadly consists of stone-built cottages nestled in the . The  National Park around  borders the south of the town. 
Holmfirth (and the surrounding countryside) is the setting for the 's long-running comedy ''''. Thousands of tourists flock to the area each year to enjoy scenery and locations familiar from the series. Filming of the TV -based drama, , had also taken place in and around the area.
The former Lodge's  building had been sitting empty in the heart of the town since the  moved to new premises in Crown Bottom.  Lodge's was built in the 1970s by the prominent local grocery company.  It was opened by    and occupied an unusual location over the River Holme, beside the town's small bus station.  Lodge's was bought in the 1990s by  who eventually closed the store down in 1997, after investing in a brand new £2m supermarket for the town.  Local residents, led by the Holme Valley Business Association, campaigned for its demolition.  Their campaign was featured in the 2005  documentary, ''''.  The building is now undergoing extensive modernisation into several smaller shops, with some planned accommodation on the top floor.
A regular Farmers Market is held year round on the third Sunday in the month in the market hall and features local and organic produce.
The town originally grew up around a corn mill and bridge in the 13th century.  Three hundred years later Holmfirth expanded rapidly as the growing cloth trade grew and the production of stone and slates from the surrounding quarries increased. 
In 1850 the very first steam train pulled into  as part of branch line built by the  company.
 
Holmfirth was the home of , who were well known for their cheeky sea-side postcards - although around the time of the , they produced postcards of a more sober nature. The printing works, on Station Road, has now been converted into residential apartments. 
The Bamforths were early pioneers of film making, before they abandoned the business in favour of postcards. During the early 1900s Holmfirth was well known for film making, and the West Yorkshire film industry, for a time, surpassed that of Hollywood, in terms of productivity and originality. Interestingly ancient documents have the town's name spelt 'Holm Frith' which can be translated as 'Holly Wood', though the word "Firth" is an old English name meaning 'wood and woodland' indicating the name means Holme woods. 
The present Parish church was built in 1778, after the previous one built in 1476 was swept away in a flood the previous year. 
There are a number of instances when ing has occurred in the Holme Valley affecting Holmfirth and other settlements in the valley. The earliest recorded one being in 1738 and the latest in 1944. The most severe flood occurred early on the morning of , , when the embankment of the Bilberry  collapsed causing the deaths of 81 people. Following a severe storm in 1777 the  burst its banks, sweeping away people and property with the loss of three lives, and the stone church built in 1476, was swept away. A storm in 1821 again caused the river to burst its banks. The flooding on the night of   was not nationally reported and it was then overshadowed by the  the following week.
<gallery>
Image:HolmfirthCentral(RLH)2007-03-21(1Mb).jpg| View across Holmfirth to Castle Hill, Huddersfield, taken from Dunsley Bank Road
Image:Holmfirth.jpg|Holmfirth centre showing the Parish church
</gallery>
Holmfirth used to have its own branch line, off the  to  line (commonly referred to as the ), this short, two-mile (3 km), line branched from the mainline just south of the village . A viaduct took the line across the valley and into  where a station was sited.  The line then went along the side of the valley coming to a halt just outside the town centre on Station Road. Plans did exist for the line to be extended up the valley and then tunnel under Black Hill to join the  to  line near .  The line closed to passengers in 1959, with goods traffic lasting until 1965. The  still remain as a private house. Other sections of the line further down the valley have been sold off for private housing and the viaduct, crossing the valley between  and  has been demolished, though the small section spanning the A616 road, at Scar End, still remains.
The bus station is located in the centre of Holmfirth from which regular bus services take varying routes around the outlying villages and to Huddersfield Bus Station and Train station.  Additional services run to the town, from ,  and  via . Most services are operated by . On Sundays and Bank Holidays services operate from Holmfirth to  and Buxton in North Derbyshire. The service is operated by either /Chesterfield or .
In October 2006, First bus services were re-branded as the 'Holmfirth Connection' following the re-routing of services from the Holme Valley to call at . Integrated ticketing was introduced which makes it possible to travel to ,  or  with a single ticket bought onboard the bus.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.wymetro.com/TicketsAndPasses/DiscountsAndOffers/FBR.htm|title=First Bus&Rail - Holmfirth Connection|publisher=|}}</ref>
The Holmfirth Artweek is an annual event which showcases the talents of local artists, while also raising money for the .
Holmfirth is home to the galleries of two internationally acclaimed artists:  <ref>[http://www.tate.org.uk/40artists40days/ashley_jackson.html Tate Online - Ashley Jackson] </ref> and      <ref>[http://www.therp.co.uk/pages/artists_cvs/stubley.asp?art=25 The Royal Society of Portrait Painters - Trevor Stubley] </ref>.
The Holmfirth Festival (Pennine Festival of Music and Dance) and the separate Holmfirth Festival of Folk usually take place between April and June.
The Holmfirth Choral Society hold classical choral music concerts, on a regular basis, in Holmfirth Civic Hall.
Holmfirth constitutes a town of its own almost seven&nbsp;miles (11 km) south of the larger town of Huddersfield. While the town Holmfirth itself is comparatively small, it is surrounded by several  and villages. These neighbouring settlements are often collectively referred to as "Holmfirth" and include:- , Arrunden, , , Cliff, , Gully, , , ,  and Washpit, Many of which are located on Cartworth Moor
Other villages and hamlets within the Holmfirth  include:- , , , , , , , , , , , ,  and .