Archaeological collections contain a neanderthal handaxe, found at Hamsey near Lewes, dated to perhaps 80,000 years ago.
Later archaeological finds have shown that  peoples had arrived in the area today known as Sussex: primitive flint tools used in fishing and hunting, and evidence of woodland clearing have been found. At the time (8000BC) Britain was still connected to the continent prior to glacial meltwater completely filling the Channel. 
By 4100BC flint mines were being worked, particularly near today's  by  man. Tombs with some pottery and weapons have also been discovered.
From the  (about 1400-1100BC) settlements and burial sites have left their mark on the area, particularly along the . Later, in 7th/6th Century BC the s  arrived, and their hill-forts at ,  and other places show their settlements; burial sites have given further evidence of the lives.
The first Roman invasion took place between 54-45BC. It left behind Roman coins, villas, and Romano-British temples.  and then  ruled the  tribe who controlled this part of south-east England. The latter later became King (Rex), possibly at the time of the second Roman invasion in AD 100.
This invasion was to be the time when many of the larger villas were built - including  and . Finds have included coins and decorated pottery. Remains of the Roman roads include parts of those from  to London; and that from  northwards: the latter carrying the iron ore mined near the town. Other settlements included ports, among them Chichester and  on the River Adur. Hastings may have been another. More hoards of coins have been discovered: a large one at  in particular.
Towards the end of the Roman occupation the  attacks began, and forts were built around the south-east coast, under the . In the area later to be known as Sussex were  () and  ().
According to the  the Saxons landed in 477 in the west of the county under  and his three sons, and began to found the kingdom of the South Saxons (see ). Later (491AD ) they landed at Pevensey and took the castle there. They had driven the British westward.   Aelle became the most influential of the contemporary Saxon chiefs, and was, according to Bede, the first , or principal king. 
After his time the kingdom of Sussex gradually declined, falling entirely under the dominion of  in 823.  
As with earlier occupants of the area, now named Sussex, Saxon remains have been discovered. There are numerous cemeteries, and scattered burial places along the south slopes of the Downs, including the cemetery on Highdown Hill, where weapons, ornaments and vessels of various kinds were found, and the Chanctonbury hoard of coins is among the most noticeable relics. 
From 895 Sussex suffered from constant raids by the , till the accession of , after which arose the two great forces of the house of  and of the . Godwine was probably a native of Sussex, and by the end of 's reign a third part of the county was in the hands of his family.
Norman influence was already strong in Sussex before the Conquest: the  had interest in the harbours of , Rye, Winchelsea and Steyning; while the estate of  was held by a Norman chaplain to . The county was of great importance to the Normans; Hastings and Pevensey being on the most direct route for Normandy.  ensured that his lines of communication were safe by placing the lands in the hands of men, such as his half-brother, , who held Pevensey, and his son-in-law, , who held . In addition the five (later six, with the addition of Battle)  of Sussex were held by these and three other Norman tenants-in-chief. 
The holdings - which had been scattered under the Saxons, so that one man's holding might be in more than one rape - were now determined, not by the manors in which they lay, but by the borders of the rape. Another peculiarity of the division of land in Sussex is that, apparently, each  of land had eight instead of the usual four .
The county boundary was long and somewhat indeterminate on the north, owing to the dense forest of Andredsweald, which was uninhabited till the 11th century. Evidence of this is seen in Domesday Book by the survey of Worth and Lodsworth under , and also by the fact that as late as 1834 the present parishes of north and south  in Sussex were part of . 
At the time of the Domesday Survey Sussex contained sixty , which have been little altered since. A few have been split up into two or three, making seventy-three in all; and the names of some have changed, owing probably to the meeting-place of the hundred court having been altered. These courts were in private hands in Sussex; either of the Church, or of great barons and local lords.
The county court had been held at Lewes and Shoreham until 1086, when it was moved to Chichester. After several changes the act of 1504 arranged for it to be held alternately at Lewes and Chichester. There was no gaol in the county until 1487; that at Guildford being used in common by Surrey and Sussex, which were under one sheriff until 1567.
Private jurisdictions, both ecclesiastical and lay, played a large part in the county. The chief ecclesiastical franchises were those of the , of the , of the Saxon foundation of Bosham, where Bishop Wilfred had found the only gleam of Christianity in the county (Sussex was the last of the Saxon kingdoms to embrace Christianity), and of the votive , founded by William the Conqueror. This abbey possessed, besides land in many other counties, the `Lowy of Battle,' a district extending for 3 miles (5 km) round the abbey. 
The see of Chichester was co-extensive with the county, and has altered little. It is one of the oldest bishoprics, having been founded by Wilfred at Selsey; the seat was removed to Chichester by William I. Among the lay franchises, the most noticeable are those of the Cinque Ports and of the honor of Pevensey, named the honor of the Eagle from the lords of L'Aigle or Aguila. There were two  centred on Chichester and at Lewes; whose jurisdiction later became the basis for the division between East and West Sussex, the County Councils from 1888 having been based in those two towns. In 2006 there are three archdeacons: those for Chichester; Horsham; and for Lewes and Hastings.
Sussex, from its position, was constantly the scene of preparations for invasion, and was often concerned in rebellions. Pevensey and Arundel play a great part in rebellions and forfeiture during the troubled times of the early Norman kings. In the barons' wars the county was a good centre for the king's forces; Lewes being in the hands of the king's brother-in-law, John de Warenne, earl of Surrey, Pevensey and Hastings in those of his uncle, Peter of Savoy. The forces of the king and of  met at Lewes, where a battle took place in 1264. 
The corrupt and burdensome administration of the county during the 13th and 14th centuries, combined with the constant passage of troops for the French wars and the devastating plagues of the 14th century, were the causes of such rebellions as the  of 1381 and 's Rebellion in 1450.  
During Elizabeth's reign there was again constant levying of troops for warfare in   and the Low Countries, and preparations for defence against Spain. The sympathies of the county were divided during the , Arundel and Chichester being held for the king, Lewes and the Cinque Ports for the parliament. Chichester and Arundel were besieged, and the  gained a strong hold on the county, in spite of the loyalty of Sir , sheriff of Sussex. A royalist gathering in the west of the county in 1645 caused preparations for resistance at Chichester, of which  was governor. In the same year the "Clubmen" rose and endeavoured to compel the armies to come to terms.
Little active part in the national history fell to Sussex from that time till the , when numbers of volunteers were raised in defence. At the outbreak of war with France in 1793 a camp was formed at ; and at Eastbourne in 1803, when the s were erected along the south coast.  A central fort and supply base for the towers,  the  at  was constructed between 1804-1810. It is now home to  Museum.  In the 1860s, possible wars with France prompted more defence building, including the fort at .
During World War II the entire coast in East Sussex became a virtual fortress, and towns such as Hastings and Eastbourne became armed camps. Large numbers of the civilian population were evacuated to safer towns inland.
The ary history of the county began in the 13th century. In 1290, the first year for which a return of knights of the shire is available, Henry Hussey and William de Etchingham were elected.  
Until the Redistribution Act of 1832, representation of the people in Parliament had grown in a haphazard way. Over eighty seats were held in England in places which, for one reason or another, no longer had the numbers of voters such a situation demanded. The Act disenfranchised many of them completely, including , , ,  and  in Sussex, which  were disfranchised after returning two members each, the first being classed among the worst of the s. Before 1832 two members each had been returned also by , , , , , ,  (with the rape of Bramber) and . Arundel, Horsham, Midhurst and Rye were each deprived of a member in 1832, Chichester and Lewes in 1867, and Hastings in 1885. Arundel was disfranchised in 1868, and Chichester, Horsham, Midhurst, New Shoreham and Rye in 1885.
The industries of Sussex were once varied. Among those noted in the  were the  fisheries, the s of the coast and the wool trade; the South Down sheep being noted for their , at home and abroad, as early as the 13th century. 
The  mines of the county, though not mentioned in Domesday, are known to have been worked by the Romans; and the  and  of iron was the great industry of the Weald from the 13th to the 18th century, the first mention of the trade in the county being in 1266. In the 15th century ordnance for the government was made here. Some old banded guns with the name of a Sussex maker on them may be seen at the . The first cast-iron  made in England came from  in Sussex, and were made by one Ralph Hogge, whose device can be seen on a house in Buxted. Interestingly, Hogge was the employee of parson William , whose clerical duties overlapped with his role as an arms czar. The large supply of wood in the county made it a favourable centre for the industry, all  being done with  till the middle of the 18th century. In the time of  the destruction of the  for fuel began to arouse attention, and enactments for the preservation of timber increased from this time forward, till the use of pit- for smelting was perfected, when the industry moved to districts where coal was to be found. 
The glass-making industry, which had flourished at  in , and at ,  and  in Sussex, was destroyed by the prohibition of the use of   in 1615. The  trade had been one of the most considerable in early times; the Sussex  being considered the finest  timber. 
Among the smaller industries were  and .
After the Romans left, roads in Sussex, as elsewhere, fell into disrepair. It was not until the late 18th century that the , built and maintained by local trusts, began to be built, and by 1820 there were 521 miles of turnpikes in the county. Most trusts were wound up by the 1870s, but modern roads frequently owe their existence to them. 
In the 20th century arterial roads began to be built to take increasing traffic, and today's roads often follow the same patterns; principal roads are those radiating from London connecting with the main coastal towns, and the A259 along the south coast. 
Railways came to Sussex with the opening of the  in 1841. Like the roads, the railways link the main coastal towns with London, and include the coastal route through Brighton. Many of the original branch lines have been closed.
The two major ports in Sussex are at , opened in 1579, and at ; Rye is a minor port. There are also many harbours, particularly Hastings and those in the inlets south of Chichester.