'''Hitachiiwa Eitarō''' (常陸岩英太郎, ,  - , ) was a ese  wrestler from . His highest rank was ''''.
Born in , he joined  and was coached by former '''' . He made his debut in May 1917, and was promoted to the '''' division in May 1922. After winning the ''juryo'' division championship in January 1923 he reached the top '''' division in May 1923. In January 1926, at the rank of '''' 2, he finished as runner-up to ''yokozuna''  with a fine 10-1 record. His earned him promotion to '''', and after two more runner-up performances he was promoted to ''Ōzeki'' in May 1927. 
In January 1928, he won his only top division '''', or championship, but it caused great controversy. He had one '''' (no fight win) against  on the 10th day.  His rival for the championship, veteran ''maegashira'' and former ''sekiwake'' Misugiiso, had won all his bouts in actual fights but was then defeated by strong ''komusubi''  (later ''yokozuna'') on the 11th day. At the end of the tournament they had both recorded 10 wins, 1 loss, as Hitachiiwa had defeated ''yokozuna''  on the final day. Hitachiiwa and Misugiiso were too far apart in rank to have been paired against each other during the tournament, and as there was no  playoff system in place at that time, Hitachiiwa, in the higher ''Ōzeki'' rank was awarded the ''''. Many people sympathized with Misugiiso as it had cost him his only chance to win a championship. Misugiiso was only able to win two more bouts in his career and retired a year later. The system of ''fusensho'' was uncompleted at that time (the system was only accepted for the last two days of a tournament, and they didn't receive ''kachi-nanori'', or formal announcement of the winner). In the following tournament in March 1928, the modern fusensho system was established. 
Hitachiiwa fell ill after the dispute and was unable to capitalise on his win, sitting out the March 1928 tournament. He was unable to record good results in his following career and was never in contention for another championship. He retired in March 1931. He remained in the sumo world as an elder, under the name Sakaigawa, and worked as a coach in Dewanoumi stable until his death.
!
!January
!March
!May
!October
!x
!x
!x
''*tournament actually held one month earlier
<references/>