'''Alexander in the Qur'an''' is a theory that holds that the character of , mentioned in the , is in fact . The name Alexander itself is never mentioned in the Qur'an. Dhul-Qarnayn (in  ذو القرنين) is a figure who was well-known in the lore of the early  dwellers of the , and is mentioned in the Qur'an, the sacred scripture of . Dhul-Qarnayn is regarded by some Muslims as a prophet. The Qur'an indicates that the people (at least Jewish ), during 's time, already knew tales of a person of great power by the name of Dhul-Qarnayn. 
It is almost universally held, among Western scholars, that the character of Dhul-Qarnayn corresponds to Alexander the Great. The reason for this is that the story of Dhul-Qarnayn as described in the Qur'an follows very closely some passages of the '''', a thoroughly embellished compilation of Alexander's exploits from Hellenistic and early Christian sources, which underwent numerous expansions and revisions throughout  and the . 
Historically, Muslim scholars have endorsed the identification of Dhul-Qarnayn with the Alexander the Great, although competing theories have been proposed, some recently (see  for details).  scholars, studying ancient  legends about Alexander the Great, independently came to the conclusion that Dhul-Qarnayn is an ancient  for Alexander the Great. As a result, the identity of Dhul-Qarnayn has become a matter of great controversy in modern times. 
Dhul-Qarnayn features prominently in the , the sacred scripture believed by Muslims to have been revealed by  to . The story of Dhul-Qarnayn appears in sixteen verses of the Qur'an, specifically verses . Consult the  page for more details.
 map by the Muslim scholar  (South up). "Yajooj" and "Majooj" (Gog and Magog) appear in Arabic script on the bottom-left edge of the Eurasian landmass, enclosed within dark mountains, at a location corresponding roughly to Mongolia. This is a reference to the story of Dhul-Qarnayn in the Qur'an.]]
The earliest mention of Dhul-Qarnayn, outside the , is found in the works of the earliest  historian and , , which form the main corpus of the '''' literature. Ibn Ishaq's Sira reports that the eighteenth chapter of the Qur'an (which includes the story of Dhul-Qarnayn) was revealed to  by  on account of some questions posed by the Jewish Rabbis residing in the city of  - the verse was revealed during the  of Muhammad's life. According to Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad's tribe, the powerful , were greatly concerned about their tribesman who had started claiming prophethood and wished to consult Jewish Rabbis about the matter. The Quraysh sent two men to the  Rabbis of Medina, reasoning that the Rabbis had superior knowledge of the scriptures and about the prophets of God. The two Quraysh men described their tribesman, Muhammad, to the Rabbis. The Rabbis told the men to ask Muhammad three questions:
The famous story, in the Sira, goes that when Muhammad was informed of the three questions from the Rabbis, he declared that he would have the answers in the morning. However, Muhammad did not give the answer in the morning. For fifteen days, Muhammad did not answer the question. Doubt in Muhammad began to grow amongst the people of . Then, after fifteen days, Muhammad received the revelation that is   ("the Cave"), the eighteenth chapter of the Qur'an. Surah Al-Kahf mentions the "People of the Cave," a strange story about some young men in ancient times who slept in a cave for many years. Surah Al-Kahf also mentions the Ruh, or soul/spirit. Finally, the surah also mentions "a man who travelled a great deal and reached the east and the west of the earth" - namely, Dhul-Qarnayn. 
's original work is lost, but it has been almost completely incorporated in , another early Muslim historian. Ibn Hisham collected Ibn Ishaq's  and added his notes to it; in regards to Dhul-Qarnayn, Ibn Hisham noted:
The theme, amongst Islamic scholars, of identifying Dhul-Qarnayn with Alexander the Great appears to have originated here. Why Ibn Hisham made this identification is not entirely clear.  Muslim philosophers, such as , , and  enthusiastically embraced the concept of Dhul-Qarnayn being an  king. They stylized Dhul-Qarnayn as a Greek .
s, studying ancient  legends about Alexander the Great, have come to conclude that the Qur'an's stories about Dhul-Qarnayn closely parallel certain legends about Alexander the Great found in ancient Hellenistic and Christian writings. There is some  evidence to identify the Arabic  "Dhul-Qarnayn" with Alexander the Great. There is also a long history of monotheistic religions coopting the historical Alexander. This leads to the theologically controversial conclusion that these legends are the source of the story of Dhul-Qarnayn in the Qur'an. 
Alexander the Great was an immensely popular figure in the  and post-classical cultures of the  and . Almost immediately after his death a body of legend began to accumulate about his exploits and life which, over the centuries, became increasingly fantastic as well as allegorical. Collectively this tradition is called the ''Alexander Romance'', and some recensions feature such vivid episodes as Alexander ascending through the air to  or journeying to the bottom of the sea in a glass bubble. 
As the ''Alexander Romance'' persisted in popularity over the centuries, it was assumed by various neighboring peoples. Of particular significance was its incorporation into  and later  legendary traditions. In the Jewish tradition Alexander was initially a figure of , representing the vain or covetous ruler who is ignorant of larger spiritual truths. Yet their belief in a just, all-powerful God forced Jewish interpreters of the Alexander tradition to come to terms with Alexander's undeniable temporal success. Why would a just, all-powerful God show such favor to an unrighteous ruler? This , plus acculturation to , led to a more positive Jewish interpretation of the Alexander legacy. In its most neutral form this was typified by having Alexander show deference to either the Jewish people or the symbols of their faith. In having the great conqueror thus acknowledge the essential truth of the Jews' religious, intellectual, or ethical traditions, the prestige of Alexander was harnessed to the cause of Jewish . Eventually Jewish writers would almost completely co-opt Alexander, depicting him as a righteous gentile or even a believing . The Christianized peoples of the Near East, inheritors of both the Hellenic as well as Judaic strands of the ''Alexander Romance'', further theologized Alexander until in some stories he was depicted as a saint. The Christian legends turned the ancient Greek conqueror Alexander III into Alexander ''"the Believing King"'', implying that he was a believer in monotheism (contrary to known historical facts).{{ref|Britannica}}
<div style="float:right"><gallery>
Image:Alexander-Coin.jpg|Silver  ( coin) issued in the name of , depicting Alexander with the horns of  (/ BC, posthumous issue) 
Image:Abiel coin.jpg|Imitation silver  issued in the name of the  chieftain , minted at the site of Mleiha in  around 200 BC. This coin is an imitation based on coin types of 
</gallery></div>
As said before, the ''"Dhul-Qarnayn"'' literally means "the two-horned one." Alexander the Great was often depicted as one possessing horns, in particular the . Ancient Greek coins minted in the name of Alexander the Great depict Alexander with the distinctive horns of Amon on his head. [http://www.saudiaramcoworld.com/issue/198805/siwa-oasis.extraordinary.htm] The influence of Alexander the Great spread even to the coinage of ancient Arabia; in the late , silver coins depicting Alexander with  horns were used as a principal coinage in Arabia and were issued by an  ruler by the name of Abi'el who ruled in the south-eastern region of the {{ref|Coinage}}
The reason that Alexander the Great was depicted with the horns of Amon in ancient Greek coinage is that in  Alexander was received as the son of the ancient Egyptian god , and the god Amon was depicted as ram-headed. Alexander then styled himself as the son of Amon; ''"He seems to have become convinced of the reality of his own  and to have required its acceptance by others ... The cities perforce complied, but often ironically: the n decree read, 'Since Alexander wishes to be a god, let him be a god.'"''{{ref|Britannica}}
In the ''Alexander Romance'', a Christian legend has it that, in one of his prayers to God, Alexander said, ''"O God ... Thou hast made me horns upon my heads"'' and the translator adds in a footnote that in the  version of this legend, ''"Alexander is always referred to as 'the two horned,'"''{{ref|Pseudo-Callisthenes}} (p.146.)
The  describes a story about Dhul-Qarnayn building a  near the "rising place of the Sun," between two mountains, in order to enclose the nations of  who "do great mischief in the earth." The relevant passages from Qur'an state:
The building of gates in the  Mountains by Alexander to repel the barbarian peoples identified with Gog and Magog has ancient provenance. The 1st century A.D. Jewish historian  mentions that "a nation of the Alans, whom we have previously mentioned elsewhere as being ," travelled through "a passage which King Alexander [the Great] shut up with iron gates".{{ref|JosephusA}} Josephus also records that the people of Magog, the Magogites, were synonymous with the Scythians.{{ref|JosephusB}} According to R. A. Anderson,{{ref|Anderson}} this merely indicates that the main elements of the story were already in place six centuries before the Qur'an's revelation, not that the story itself was known in the cohesive form apparent in the Qur'anic account. Similarly, 's ''Letter 77'' mentions that "the hordes of the Huns had poured forth all the way from  (they had their haunts between the icy Tanais and the rude , where the gates of Alexander keep back the wild peoples behind the Caucasus)".{{ref|jerome77}} In his Commentary on  (38:2), Jerome identifies the nations located beyond the Caucasus and near  as Gog and Magog.
 legends speak of the , also known as , built by  to enclose the Gog and Magog hordes. Several variations of the legend can be found. In the story, Alexander the Great built a gate of iron between two mountains, at the end of the , to prevent the armies of Gog and Magog from ravaging the plains. This Alexander legend bears a remarkable resemblance to the Qur'anic story of Dhul-Qarnayn. An historian notes that:
A  version of the Christian legend describes an apocryphal letter from Alexander to his mother, wherein he writes: 
Several historical figures have searched for Alexander's Gate, and legends about the gate itself grew; 
 of the world by , (- CE) from ''Etymologies''. This was also the first printed map in Europe[http://www.henry-davis.com/MAPS/EMwebpages/205.html].]]
In the Qur'an, Dhul-Qarnayn encloses the Gog and Magog hoard behind a mighty  between two mountains, preventing the Gog and Magog from invading the Earth. The Qur'an also explains that in the end times, Gog and Magog will destroy this gate, allowing them to hoard to ravage the Earth; 
In the  version of the Christian legends, Alexander the Great encloses the Gog and Magog hoard behind a mighty gate between two mountains, preventing the Gog and Magog from invading the Earth. In addition, it is written in the Christian legend that in the  God will cause the Gate of Gog and Magog to be destroyed, allowing the Gog and Magog hoard to ravage the Earth; 
In order to understand the legend of the , that is in order to understand how a single gate between two mountains could prevent the Gog and Magog hoard from invading the world, one must understand that the Christian legend was written in a time when most people believed that the  is true. The Earth was described as being flat and surrounded by great mountains, and these mountains were in turn surrounded by some land followed by a treacherous, fetid ocean sea. It is this tract of land between the mountains and the ocean sea that Alexander enclosed Gog and Magog, so that they could not cross the mountains and invade the Earth. The legend describes "the old wise men" explaining this  and  of the Earth to Alexander, and then Alexander subsequently setting out to enclose Gog and Magog behind a mighty gate between a narrow passage at the end of the flat Earth: 
's view of the world (prior to 900 BC). The Homeric conception of the world involved a flat, circular Earth, surrounded by mountains. The mountains are, in turn, surrounded by . The Sun emerges from underneath the Earth, traveling along the fixed dome of the sky, and is shown rising from Oceanus.]]
A peculiar aspect of the story about Dhul-Qarnayn, in the Qur'an, is that it describes Dhul-Qarnayn travelling to the "the rising place of the " and the "setting place of the Sun." Dhul-Qarnayn also finds a people living by the "rising place of the Sun," and explains that these people have no shelter from the Sun: 
The Qur'an also describes Dhul-Qarnayn travelling to the place where the sun sets into a murky spring: 
It may not be clear what these verses refer to. Ancient Muslim  of the Qur'an, known as the  (such as the s of 
, , , , and ) understood these verses of the Qur'an to be literal descriptions of a cosmology of the universe wherein the Earth is flat and wherein the Sun rises and sets into a sea that is surrounding the flat Earth [http://www.muslimhope.com/AstronomyAndTheQur'an.htm]. The canonical  literature also contains a passage that may easily be misconstrued as implying a similar cosmology - until one realises that in all Islamic theology the 'throne' is a metaphysical entity in the 'ghayb' (the 'unseen', spiritual world) meaning that the sun's prostration refers to a spiritual parallel, not its physical orbiting reality. However, as shall be seen, this passage is similar to one found in the Christian legends about Alexander: 
Narrated Abu Dhar: The Prophet, peace be upon him, asked me at sunset, "Do you know where the sun goes (at the time of sunset)?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "It goes (i.e. travels) till it prostrates Itself underneath the Throne and takes the permission to rise again, and it is permitted and then (a time will come when) it will be about to prostrate itself but its prostration will not be accepted, and it will ask permission to go on its course but it will not be permitted, but it will be ordered to return whence it has come and so it will rise in the west. And that is the interpretation of the Statement of Allah: "And the sun Runs its fixed course For a term (decreed). that is The Decree of (Allah) The Exalted in Might, The All-Knowing." (36.38)'"{{ref|Bukhari}}
Modern scholars such as Dr. Zaghlool Al-Najjar agree now that the word "balagha" does not literally mean that Alexander came to the setting of the sun.  In Arabic the word "balagha" is commonly used in reference to anything in the sky above to indicate time of day.  In other and subsequent verses the Quran uses the word "adraka" or "yudrik" to mean a literal arrival.  The word "taghrubu" is derived from "ghuroob", which means to go away, "gharb" meaning to go west.  The word "aayn" can mean any body of water.  It is most likely that the "dark" or "murky" waters refer to the Black Drin, an outlet of water near the town of Ochrida. As a youth, Alexander would have conquered this land near the ancient town of Lychnis (modern day Ochrida) and had to decide the fate of the natives, or the People referred in the verse.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, an almost identical discourse is found in the  Christian legends about Alexander the Great. The Christian legend about Alexander explains that when the Sun sets into the fetid sea, it enters into heaven and immediately bows down in obedience to God, In the legend, Alexander travels to the fetid sea at the end of the Earth. As mentioned the previous subsection, this legend was understood from a  point of view. The legend explained that "the old, wise men" told Alexander that at the ends of the flat Earth is a sea in which the  rises from the west and in which the Sun sets in the east. The waters of this sea were imagined as being fetid place and intensely hot from the heat of the Sun when it rose from the waters. Upon hearing about this  from the wise men, the legendary Alexander sets out to the end of the flat Earth and witnesses the Sun rising from the fetid sea. According to the Christian legend, at this place, where the Sun rises out of a terrible sea, Alexander found a people who have no shelter from the Sun which is literally rising out of an intensely hot sea; 
, and his advances eastward ended at the fringes of .]]
The Qur'anic and Christian legendary accounts both have it that Alexander the Great travelled to the ends of the Earth, in particular to the place on the Earth where the Sun sets (the west) and the place on the Earth where the Sun rises (the east). This allegory served the legendary accounts to convey the theme of Alexander's great exploits as a conqueror. In the context of the , travelling to the places of the setting and rising of the  would imply having travelled across the entire world. However, many modern Muslims insist that the Qur'an's descriptions of Dhul-Qarnayn travels are just allegorical references to Alexander's travels towards the east and the west, and do not imply Dhul-Qarnayn travelled to the ends of the . Naturally, the stories about Alexander's travels to the eastern and western extents of the world are a legendary tradition, which built up over centuries throughout the lands conquered by Alexander and beyond, after his death.
   from  depicting , the Persian name for ]]
As it has been noted, the early Muslim scholars generally identified the Dhul-Qarnayn of the  with Alexander the Great. In the centuries that followed, Dhul-Qarnayn was often thought of by Muslims as a . Early Islamic civilization would produce its own legendary traditions about Alexander the Great, particularly in Persia. 
With the , the ''Alexander Romance'' found its way to an honored place in &mdash;an ironic outcome considering pre-Islamic Persia's hostility to the national enemy who not only destroyed the glorious , but was also directly responsible for centuries of Persian domination by  foreign rulers. Islamic Persian accounts of the Alexander legend, known as the '''', combined the  material about Alexander, some of which is found in the , with   ideas about Alexander the Great.  sources on the Alexander legend devised a mythical genealogy for him whereby his mother was a concubine of , making him the half-brother of the last  shah, , in a move to "appropriate" themselves of Alexander. By the  such important writers as  were making him the subject of their , and holding him up as the model of the ideal statesman or , an idea adopted from the Greeks and elaborated on by  like . The Muslim traditions also elaborated the legend that  had been the companion of  and the direct student of .
<br>
Though many Muslim scholars have traditionally identified Dhul-Qarnayn with , this identification has today become subject among Muslim scholars of numerous attacks.{{Fact|date=February 2007}} Most of the factual details of the ''Alexander Romance'', as those that appear to be included in the  (Alexander's fantastic deeds as well as his implied monotheism), have little or no basis in historical fact; and if Dhul-Qarnayn is Alexander, this confusion between fact and legend could possibly be a source of embarrassment to some Muslim scholars, even if not to all.
The historical personality of Alexander the Great was co-opted by the legendary traditions of both Judaism and Christianity, which chose to portray Alexander as "the Believing King" &mdash; a devout monotheist. It was in this Judeo-Christian context that the legends of Alexander the Great reached the . Thus, it is not difficult to understand how the pagan Alexander may have ended in the Tafsir of the Qur'an to be an Islamic Prophet.
The belief that the Qur'an contains passages derived from pagan folklore, rather than its own internal epistemological standard that itself establishes the legitimacy of similar texts, has led some to ajudge the Dhul-Qarnayn story a serious theological problem.  Ancient Muslim scholars of the Islam were unaware of such theological controversies, but even in modern times, some influential mainstream Muslims (such as ) have endorsed the traditional Islamic view which identified Dhul-Qarnayn with Alexander the Great, judging the theological problems that could be posed surmountable. Most secular scholars studying Islam have been concord in their view that there is strong evidence supporting the conclusion that Dhul-Qarnayn is none other than Alexander the Great. However, belief in the infallibility of the Qur'an has made this position untenable in the opinions of many modern Muslim scholars. Some Muslims take the position that nothing about the identity of Dhul-Qarnayn is known except what is stated in the Qur'an (in other words, they assert that there is no evidence linking the identity of Dhul-Qarnayn to a historical person)[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?cid=1123996016360&pagename=IslamOnline-English-AAbout_Islam/AskAboutIslamE/AskAboutIslamE]. Other Muslim scholars, such as  and , have suggested that Dhul-Qarnayn is  and not Alexander the Great, though this theory has been proposed only recently and is not much considered by non-Islamic scholars, mostly due to the fact that any Persian nobles contemporaneous to Alexander the Great, and especially Cyrus, would have practiced , thus disqualifying them as monotheistic "Believing Kings". Other Muslims have suggested that Dhul-Qarnayn is the mysterious  of  or the pharaoh [http://www.alinaam.org.za/mahmood/mahmood13.htm].
In: ,  ISBN 9780415428996 