In the great  epic '''''', '''Yudhisthira''' (: युधिष्ठिर, ''{{IAST|yudhiṣṭhira}}'') was the eldest son of King  and Queen , king of  and , and World Emperor. He was the principal protagonist of the , and for his unblemished piety, known as '''Dharmaraja''' (''Most pious one''). Some sources describe him to be an adept warrior with the Spear.
Yudhisthira's father , the king of , soon after his marriage accidentally shot a  and his wife, mistaking them for deer, while the couple were making love. Before he died, the Brahmin cursed the king himself to die at once, the minute he engaged in intercourse with one of his two wives. Due to this curse, Pandu was unable to father children. In additional penance for the murder, Pandu also abdicated the crown to his blind brother . {{Fact|date=February 2007}}
Yudhisthira therefore was conceived in an unusual way. His mother, Queen Kunti, had in her youth been granted the power to invoke the  by Rishi . Each god, when invoked, would place a child in her lap. Urged by Pandu to use her invocations, Kunti gave birth to Yudhisthira by invoking the Lord of Righteousness, .
Being Pandu's eldest son, Yudhisthira was the rightful heir to the throne. However, this claim was contested by the Dhritarashtra's son, .
Yudhisthira's four younger brothers were , (born by invoking ); , (born by invoking ); and the twins  and , (born by invoking the ). If , the son of Kunti born before her marriage by invoking  is counted, Yudhisthira would be the second-eldest of five Pandava brothers.
Yudhisthira was trained in religion, science, administration and military arts by the Kuru preceptors  and . He was a master of the spear weapon, and a ''maharatha'', capable of combating 10,000 opponents all together at a time.{{Fact|date=February 2007}}
Yudhisthira is also known as '''Bharata''' (''Descendent of the line of '') and '''Ajatashatru''' (''One Without Enemies'').
Yudhisthira's true prowess was shown in his unflinching adherence to  (truth) and  (righteousness), which were more precious to him than any royal ambitions, material pursuits and family relations. 
Yudhisthira rescued  from , and all of his four brothers from death by exemplifying not only his immense knowledge of dharma but also his very own way of understanding the finer implications of dharma, as judged by , who was testing him in the guise of a Crane and a Yaksha.
Yudhisthira's dharma was markedly distinct from that of other righteous kings. He married  along with his four brothers, he had Bhima marry an outcast Rakshasi, he termed "prayer" as "poison", he saw an uneventful life with no credit and a belly full of food at the end of the day as happiness, he denounced casteism, saying a Brahmin is known by his actions and not his birth or education--thus portraying the real changeable dharma, the dharma that modifies itself to suit the times.  
Due to his piety, Yudhisthira's feet and his chariot do not touch the ground, to symbolize his purity.
nese shadow puppet play ()]]
Yudhisthira and his brothers were favored by the Kuru elders like ,  , and  over Duryodhana and his brothers, the , due to their devotion to their elders, pious habits and great aptitude in religion and military skills, and all the necessary qualifications for the greatest of the  order.
Yudhisthira married the Panchali princess , who bore him his son Prativindya.
When the Pandavas came of age, King Dhritarashtra sought to avoid a conflict with his sons, the , by giving Yudhisthira half the Kuru kingdom, albeit the lands which were arid, unprosperous and scantily populated, known as ''Khandavaprastha''. 
But with the help of Yudhisthira's cousin , a new city, , was constructed by the  architect . The  architect  constructed the ''Mayasabha'', which was the largest regal assembly hall in the world. Yudhisthira was crowned king of Khandavaprastha and Indraprastha. As he governed with absolute piousness, with a strict adherence to duty and service to this people, his kingdom grew prosperous, and people from all over were attracted to it. 
Yudhisthira performed the  sacrifice to become the Emperor of the World. His motives were not to obtain power for himself, but to establish  and defend religion all over the world by suppressing the enemies of Krishna and sinful, aggressive kings. 
Arjuna, Bhima, Nakula and Sahadeva led armies across the four corners of the world to obtain tributes from all kingdoms for Yudhisthira's sacrifice. At his sacrifice, Yudhisthira honored  as the most famous and greatest personality. This incensed Sisupala, who proceeded to hurl several insults at Krishna and the Pandavas for selecting a "cowherd" for the great honor. When Sisupala's transgressions exceed the hundred pardons that Krishna had promised his mother, Krishna summons the sudarshana chakra to behead him. Following which, the yajna is completed successfully.
Yudhisthira was unable to refuse when Duryodhana's maternal uncle , challenged him to a game of dice. Thanks to Shakuni's cheating, Yudhisthira lost each throw, eventually gambling away his kingdom, his wealth, his brothers and finally his wife. Owing to the protests of Vidura, Bhishma and Drona, Dhritarashtra returned all these losses. However, Shakuni challenged Yudhisthira one more time, and Yudhisthira once more lost. This time, he, his brothers and his wife were forced to discharge the debt by spending thirteen years in exile, with the condition of anonymity in the last year, in the forest before they could reclaim their kingdom.
Yudhisthira was criticized by Draupadi and Bhima for succumbing to temptation and playing dice, an art he was absolutely unskilled at, making the Pandavas prey to Shakuni and Duryodhana's evil designs. Yudhisthira reproached himself for weakness of mind, but at the time he argued that it was impossible to refuse a challenge of any nature, as he was a  and obliged to stand by the kshatriya code of honour. 
During the thirteen years, he was repeatedly tested for staunch adherence to religious values in face of adversity.
The conditions of the debt required the Pandavas to disguise themselves and not be discovered during the last year of exile. Yudhisthira learned dice play from  {{Fact|date=February 2007}} and assumed the guise of a  courtier and dice player in the  of king .
Dharma: What is heavier than earth, higher than heavens, faster than the wind and more numerous than straws?
Yudhishthira: One's mother is heavier than the earth; one's father is higher than the mountains. The mind is faster than wind and our worries are more numerous than straws. 
Dharma: Who is the friend of a traveler? Who is the friend of one who is ill and one who is dying?
Yudhishthira: The friend of a traveler is his companion. The physician is the friend of one who is sick and a dying man's friend is charity. 
Dharma: What is that which, when renounced, makes one lovable? What is that which is renounced makes happy and wealthy?
Yudhishthira: Pride, if renounced makes one lovable; by renouncing desire one becomes wealthy; and to renounce avarice is to obtain happiness.
Dharma: What enemy is invincible? What constitutes an incurable disease? What sort of man is noble and what sort is ignoble?
Yudhishthira: Anger is the invincible enemy. Covetousness constitutes a disease that is incurable. He is noble who desires the well-being of all creatures, and he is ignoble who is without mercy. 
Dharma: Who is truly happy? What is the greatest wonder? What is the path? And what is the news?
Yudhishthira: He who has no debts is truly happy. Day after day countless people die. Yet the living wish to live forever. O Lord, what can be  greater wonder? Argument leads to no certain conclusion, the Srutis are different from one another; there is not even one Rishi whose opinion can be accepted by all; the truth about Dharma and duty is hid in caves: therefore, that alone is the path along which the great have trod. This world full of ignorance is like a pan. The sun is fire, the days and nights are fuel. The months and the seasons constitute the wooden ladle. Time is the cook that is cooking all creatures in that pan (with such aids); this is the news.
(Source: KM Ganguly Mhabhata Translation )
When the period of exile was completed, Duryodhana and Shakuni nevertheless refused to return Yudhisthira's kingdom. Yudhisthira made numerous diplomatic efforts to retrieve his kingdom peacefully; all failed. To go to war to reclaim his birthright would mean fighting and killing his own relatives, an idea that appalled Yudhisthira. But , Yudhisthira's most trusted advisor (whom he recognized as the  of , the Supreme Godhead, ), pointed out that Yudhisthira's claim was righteous, and the deeds of Duryodhana were evil. If all peace efforts failed, war was therefore a most righteous course. There are many passages in the ''Mahabharata'' in which Yudhisthira's will to fight a bloody war for the sake of a kingdom falters, but Krishna justifies the war as moral and as the unavoidable duty of all moral warriors. 
In the war, the Kuru commander  was killing thousands of Pandava warriors.  hatched a plan to tell Drona that his son  had died, so that the invincible and destructive Kuru commander would give up his arms and thus could be killed. 
The plan was set in motion when  killed an elephant named Ashwathama, and loudly proclaimed that Ashwathama was dead. Drona, knowing that only Yudhisthira, with his firm adherence to the truth, could tell him for sure if his son had died, approached Yudhisthira for confirmation. Yudhisthira told him: "Ashwathama has died". However Yudhisthira could not make himself tell a lie, despite the fact that if Drona continued to fight, the Pandavas and the cause of  itself would have lost and he added: "naro va kunjaro va" which means he is not sure whether elephant or man had died.
 knew that Yudhisthira would be unable to lie, and had all the warriors beat war-drums and cymbals to make as much noise as possible. The words "naro va kunjaro va" were lost in the tumult and the ruse worked. Drona was disheartened, and laid down his weapons. He was then killed by .
When he spoke his half-lie, Yudhisthira's feet and chariot descended to the ground.{{Fact|date=February 2007}} However, Yudhisthira himself killed , the king of  and the last Kuru commander.
At the end of the war, Yudhisthira and the Pandava army emerged victorious, but Yudhisthira's children, the sons of Draupadi, and many Pandava heroes like , , , ,  were dead. Millions of warriors on both sides were killed.
Yudhisthira performed the '''' ritual for the souls of the departed. Upon his return to Hastinapura, he was crowned king of both Indraprastha and Hastinapura. 
Out of his piousness, Yudhisthira retained Dhristarashtra as the king of the city of Hastinapura, and offered him complete respect and deference as an elder, despite his misdeeds and the evil of his dead sons.
Yudhisthira later performed the   (sacrifice) to re-establish the rule of  all over the world. In this sacrifice, a horse was released to wander for a year, and Yudhisthira's brother  led the Pandava army, following the horse. The kings of all the countries where the horse wandered were asked to submit to Yudhisthira's rule or face war. All paid tribute, once again establishing Yudhisthira as the undisputed Emperor of the World.
<!-- Image with unknown copyright status removed:  -->
Upon the onset of the  and the departure of  bringing to a close His pastimes on earth, Yudhisthira and his brothers retired, leaving the throne to their only descendant to survive the war of Kurukshetra, Arjuna's grandson . Giving up all their belongings and ties, the Pandavas made their final journey of pilgrimage in the .
While climbing the peaks, one by one Draupadi and each Pandava in reverse order of age fell to their deaths, dragged down by the weight of their guilt of few, but real sins. But Yudhisthira reached the mountain peak, because he was unblemished by sin or untruth.
The true character of Yuddhisthira is revealed at the end of the Mahabharata. On the mountain peak, , King of Gods, arrived to take Yudhisthira to heaven in his Golden Chariot. As Yudhisthira was about to step into the Chariot, the Deva told him to leave behind his companion dog, an unholy creature not worthy of heaven. Yudhisthira stepped back, refusing to leave behind the creature who he had taken under his protection. Indra wondered at him - ''"You can leave your brothers behind, not arranging proper cremations for them...and you refuse to leave behind a stray dog!"''
Yudhisthira replied, ''"Draupadi and my brothers have left me, not me [them]."'' And he refused to go to heaven without the dog. At that moment the dog changed into the God Dharma, his father, who was testing him...and Yudhisthira had passed with distinction. 
Yudhisthira was carried away on 's chariot. On reaching Heaven he did not find either his virtuous brothers or his wife Draupadi. Instead he saw Duryodhana and his evil allies. The Gods told him that his brothers were in  (hell) atoning their little sins, while Duryodhana was in heaven since he died at the blessed place of Kurukshetra.
Yudhisthira loyally went to  (hell) to meet his brothers, but the sights and sounds of gore and blood horrified him. Tempted to flee, he mastered himself and remained on hearing the voice of his beloved brothers and Draupadi...calling out to him, asking him to stay with them in their misery. Yudhisthira decided to remain, ordering the Divine charioteer to return..preferring to live in hell with good people than in a heaven of evil ones. At that moment the scene changed. This was yet another illusion to test him on the one hand, and on other hand to enable him to atone for his sin of using deceit to kill Drona. Indra and Krishna appeared before him and told him that his brothers were already in Heaven, along with his enemies, for earthly virtues and vices don't hold true in heavenly realms. Krishna yet again hailed Yudhisthira for his dharma, and bowed to him, in the final defining moment of the epic where divinity bowed down to humanity.