'''Netto''' is a  based chain of discount s. Netto is owned by the , which in turn is owned by  and . The first Netto store opened on Godthåbsvej in , Denmark in <ref>http://www.netto.dk/internet/nettodk/menu/main.nsf/web/C05590C09C2C71B441256BEA0052C02D?OpenDocument</ref>.
Today Netto has stores in the following countries<ref>http://www.netto.dk/internet/nettodk/menu/main.nsf/web/5EB5BEE22D06F0DA41256BEA0027F0C5?OpenDocument</ref>:
!Country
!Since
!Stores
The first Netto store opened in Denmark in  in 1981. At first the items sat in boxes and on pallets, but the chain quickly expanded, and the service level increased as well. Today there are 392 stores.
In September , Netto started an internationalisation process, and Germany was the second country to get Netto. The first store was opened in  not long after . Netto has since expanded in the states of , ,  and , and there are a total of 263 stores today.
In Germany, a second chain of stores, called '''' and owned by  has also been in operation since 1984. It currently has more than 1,000 sales outlets in most West German states. The two chains are unrelated to each other.
Netto began operating in the United Kingdom in  on the 13th December in .  Netto primarily expanded in central , and there are stores in , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  , among other locations.
Today there are at least 184 stores in the UK and the figure continues to rise steadily.  Many prices are very similar to  prices, and so there are many  buyers.  To enforce fairness to all shoppers, many offers are limited to 6 per person. Netto sells  name products, such as  and ; commonly these are . Its style and concept is probably closest to the now defunct Kwik Save brand.
The British headquarters of Netto is in the ex-mining village of , .
The first Netto store in Poland opened in . The expansion of the branch is concentrated in the north western part of the country from Szczecin to , and through the country to , , and , and the country has 142 stores today.
The Swedish part of Netto was founded in  as a joint venture between Dansk Supermarked and  called ''Netto Marknad AB''. The co-operation was granted by the  in . The headquarters were established in  in March and the first store was opened in  on . A week later two stores where opened in Lund. In the beginning, Netto kept their stores in the  region.
In August  the first stores in  were opened. The head office was announced to be moved to  in October .
The Swedish Netto branch is expanding rapidly. As of 2003 there were 28 stores. One year later there were 58 stores and as of December  the store count is 84.
At the end of 2006 ICA announced it was pulling out of the joint venture, reducing its stake from 50% to 5%.  21 stores in the Stockholm and Västerås regions would transfer to ICA ownership with most being rebranded to ICA's own formats during 2007.  The reasons for the change were problems in supplying the stores based on Netto's more southern base as well as ICA's desire to focus investment on its own formats.
The Netto name is also used in other countries such as Spain and France but these stores are independent from the Scandinavian Netto. The Spanish Netto is a chain of convenience stores owned by  and the French Netto is discount chain owned by .
<references/>