A '''double reed''' is a type of  used to produce sound in various . The term ''double reed'' comes from the fact that there are ''two'' pieces of  vibrating against each other. A   consists of ''one'' piece of cane which vibrates against a mouthpiece made of metal, hardened rubber, resin, or some other material. The term ''double reeds'' can also refer collectively to the class of  which use double reeds. 
There are several differences, the most obvious being size, between various types of double reeds, for example between that for a  and that for an  or a  (sometimes called an English horn).  
 cane is used for the making of double reeds.  For bassoon reeds, tubes of this cane are first split lengthwise then gouged to a certain thickness.  The chosen piece of cane is then cut to shape and the centre portion is thinned (profiled).  The cane is folded end to end to form the two blades of the reed.  The  unprofiled end of the cane is shaped into a tube with the aid of a  and bound with three strategically positioned wires. Additional binding using thread is added. The folded tip is cut off to allow the blades to vibrate and final adjustments to the interior of the reed using a reamer, and to the exterior using a reed-scraping knife, are carried out.  The reed is then ready to fit to the  of the bassoon.  
The construction of double reeds for the  family of instruments is similar in principle: like the bassoon's reeds, they consist of two pieces of '''' cane fastened together with an  at the tip. However, because the oboe does not have a bocal, the cane must be fastened to a metal tube (the ), the lower half of which is normally surrounded by a piece of ; this staple is then inserted into the farrow, at the upper end of the oboe. 
There are many different methods of making reeds and many variations of design have been developed.   Players can buy reeds either ready-made, or in various stages of formation, such as part-scraped, reed blanks, or buy the staples and cane separately.  Cane is sold in several forms: as tubes, gouged, gouged and shaped, or gouged and shaped and profiled.  Bassoon cane has the further option of being profiled before purchase. Cane from several different regions is used in reed making, traditionally from southern France. There are also many options with regard to staples, shaping equipment and so forth which all have a subtle effect on the tone quality a reed will produce.
 double reeds are wider than oboe double reeds; they are also shorter and thus do not need such a tight  in order to make a sound. It is because of its double reed that the oboe is such a difficult instrument to play - without regular , the mouth can become very tired and loose and one finds difficulty in playing even a single note for more than 30 seconds.